--- PAGE 1 ---
Architectures and
protocols for remote
signature applications
version 2.2.0.0
f
1

--- PAGE 2 ---
Contents
Foreword
Revision history
Acknowledgements
Introduction
Intellectual Property Rights
Trademark notice
Essential Patents
Legal notices
1 Scope
2 Interpretation of Requirement Levels
3 References
3.1 Normative references
3.2 Informative references
4 Terms, definitions and abbreviations
4.1 Terms and definitions
4.2 Abbreviations
5 Conventions
6 Architectures and use cases
6.1 Supported architectures
7 Introduction to the remote service protocols API
7.1 Format and syntax of the API
7.2 Remote service base URI
7.3 Integrity and confidentiality
7.4 Remote service information
7.5 clientData parameter
7.6 Expressing algorithms
8 Authentication and authorization
8.1 Types of authorization
8.1.1 Service authorization and authentication
8.1.2 Credential creation authorization
8.1.3 Credential deletion authorization
8.1.4 Credential authorization
8.2 OAuth 2.0 Authorization
8.2.1 Restricted access to authorization servers
8.2.2 oauth2/authorize
8.2.3 oauth2/pushed_authorize
8.2.4 oauth2/token
8.2.5 oauth2/revoke
8.3 Authentication and authorization for electronic seals
8.3.1 Introduction
8.3.2 Service authorization and authentication for electronic seals
8.3.3 Credential authorization for electronic seals
9 Creating a remote signature
10 Error handling
10.1 Error messages
11 The remote service APIs
11.1 info
11.2 auth/login
11.3 auth/revoke
11.4 credentials/create
11.5 credentials/delete
f
2

--- PAGE 3 ---
11.6 credentials/list
11.7 credentials/info
11.8 credentials/authorize
11.9 credentials/authorizeCheck
11.10 credentials/getChallenge
11.11 credentials/extendTransaction
11.12 credentials/sendOTP
11.13 signatures/signHash
11.14 signatures/signDoc
11.15 signatures/signPolling
11.16 signatures/timestamp
12 OpenAPI description
13 Interaction among elements and components
13.1 Remote signing service authorization using Basic Authentication
13.2 Remote signing service authorization using OAuth 2.0 with Authorization Code flow
13.3 Create a remote signature with a credential protected by a PIN
13.4 Create a remote signature with a credential protected by an “online” OTP (based on SMS)
13.5 Create a remote signature with a credential protected by a mobile app
13.6 Create a remote signature with a credential protected by a PIN and an “online” OTP (based
on SMS)
13.7 Create a remote signature with a credential protected by OAuth 2.0 with Authorization Code
flow
13.8 Create a remote signature with credential and signature qualifier with OAuth 2.0
Authorization Code flow
13.9 Create a remote signature with OAuth 2.0 Authorization Code flow and Pushed and Rich
Authorization Request
13.10 Create a remote signature with a credential protected by RSSP-managed authorization
13.11 Create multiple remote signatures from a list of hash values
13.12 Create a remote multi-signatures transaction with a PDF document
13.13 Authorize SDR for signDoc
14 Change history
14.1 Changes since version 1.0.4.0
14.2 Changes since version 2.0.0.2
14.3 Changes since version 2.1.0.1
Foreword
This document is a work by members of the Cloud Signature Consortium, a nonprofit association founded by
industry and academic organizations for building upon existing knowledge of solutions, architectures and
protocols for Cloud-based Digital Signatures, also defined as “remote” Electronic Signatures.
The Cloud Signature Consortium has developed the present specification to make these solutions interoperable
and suitable for uniform adoption in the global market, in particular – but not exclusively – to meet the
requirements of the European Union's Regulation 910/2014 on Electronic Identification and Trust Services
(eIDAS) [i.1], which formally took effect on 1 July 2016.
f
3

--- PAGE 4 ---
Revision history
Version Date Version change details
0.1.7.9-PR14/02/2017 Public Pre-Release for early implementations
1.0.2.4-PR24/09/2018 V1 Pre-Release for public comments
1.0.3.0 13/12/2018 V1 Public Release
1.0.4.0 28/06/2019 V1 Updated with new IPR information and errata
2.0.0.0 25/03/2022 V2 Pre-Release for public comments
2.0.0.1 19/08/2022 V2 Pre-Release after solving public comments
2.0.0.2 20/04/2023 Correction of some typos and credentials/list example output
2.1.0.0 03/12/2024 V2.1 Public release with updates for signatures/signDoc and authorization
2.1.0.1 22/01/2025 Minor typographic corrections and update to signatures/signPolling
2.2.0.0 04/11/2025 V2.2 Public release
Acknowledgements
This work is the result of the contributions of several individuals from the Technical Working Group of the Cloud
Signature Consortium and some additional contributors. In particular, the following people have provided a
significant contribution to the drawing up and revision of the present specification:
Ałła Stoliarowa-Myć, Andrea Röck, Andrea Valle, Andrew Papastefanou, Andreas Vollmert, Arno Fiedler, Bernd
Wild, Carlos Ares, Christoph Bimminger, Cornelia Enke, Daniel Fett, David Ruana, Davide Barelli, Enrico Entschew,
Francesco Barcellini, Franck Leroy, George Gugulea, Giuliana Marzola, Giuseppe Damiano, Harald Bratko, Håvard
Grindheim, Iñigo Barreira, Jon Ølnes, Kapil Khattar, Kåre Fiedler Christiansen, Dr. Kim Nguyen, Klaus-Dieter Wirth,
Luca Boldrin, Luigi Rizzo, Mangesh Bhandarkar, Marc Kaufman, Marcin Szulga, Meena Muralidharan, Michael
Traut, Patrycja Wiktorczyk, Patryk Sosiński, Peter Lipp, Prof. Reinhard Posch, Sander Dijkhuis, Simon Roth, Sven
Prinsloo, Thomas B. Pedersen, Thomas Pielczyk, Torsten Lodderstedt.
Introduction
For a long time, transactional e-services have been designed for typical end-user devices such as desktop
computers and laptops. Accordingly, existing digital signature solutions are tailored to the characteristics of these
devices as well. This applies to smart card and USB token-based solutions. These traditional signature solutions
implicitly assume that the user accesses e-services from a desktop or laptop computer and in addition uses a
smart card or token to create any required digital signatures. This assumption is not valid any longer. During the
past few years, smartphones, tablets and other mobile end-user devices have started to replace desktop and
laptops computers.
This situation raises several challenges for e-services: smart cards and tokens cannot be easily connected to
smartphones and other mobile devices, or cannot at all. For instance, smartphones usually do not provide
support for USB devices, which is the common technology for smart card based solutions.
In this regard, recent regulations in various regions worldwide – like eIDAS [i.1] in the European Union – have
introduced the concept of electronic signatures that are created using a “remote signature creation device”,
which means that the signature device is not anymore a personal device under the physical control of the user,
but rather it is replaced by cloud-based services offered and managed by a trusted service provider.
This is, in summary, the scope of the Cloud Signature Consortium, also known as CSC, aiming at the definition of
a common architecture, building blocks and communication protocols intended for creating a standard API to
f
4

--- PAGE 5 ---
integrate the essential components of a remote signature solution established among different service providers
and consumers.
Where the context of the eIDAS Regulation is applicable, this specification, and the term “remote signature
solution” herein developed, aim to cover solutions for remote electronic signatures and remote electronic seals,
in the domains of both qualified and advanced electronic signatures / seals.
Intellectual Property Rights
The Intellectual Property Rights Policy (IPR Policy) of the Cloud Signature Consortium is available at
https://cloudsignatureconsortium.org/about-us/intellectual-property/.
Trademark notice
The Cloud Signature Consortium logo is a Registered Trademark of the Cloud Signature Consortium:
EU Trademark number 015579048.
Essential Patents
IPRs essential or potentially essential to the present document may have been declared to the Cloud Signature
Consortium. The information pertaining to these essential IPRs, if any, is available on request from the Cloud
Signature Consortium secretariat at info@cloudsignatureconsortium.org.
No investigation, including IPR searches, has been carried out by the Cloud Signature Consortium. No guarantee
can be given as to the existence of other IPRs not referenced in the present document which are, or may be, or
may become, essential to the present document.
Legal notices
The Cloud Signature Consortium seeks to promote and encourage broad and open industry adoption of its
standard.
 
  
This work is licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International License (CC BY-SA
4.0). To view a copy of this license, visit http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/ or send a letter to
Creative Commons, PO Box 1866, Mountain View, CA 94042, USA.
The present document does not create legal rights and does not imply that intellectual property rights are
transferred to the recipient or other third parties. The adoption of the specification contained herein does not
constitute any rights of affiliation or membership to the Cloud Signature Consortium VZW.
This document is provided “as is” and the Cloud Signature Consortium, its members and the individual
contributors, are not responsible for any errors or omissions.
The Trademark and Logo of the Cloud Signature Consortium are registered, and their use is reserved to the
members of the Cloud Signature Consortium VZW. Questions and comments on this document can be sent to
info@cloudsignatureconsortium.org.
f
5

--- PAGE 6 ---
1 Scope
When digital signatures are created within a device, the interfaces and functions are standardized, e.g. the API
used by the application program to access the signature creation libraries and the interface to the smart card or
similar device (if a device is used) holding the signing key. When digital signatures move to the cloud, the
functions needed to create a digital signature can be distributed across several service instances, each carrying
out one or more steps in the signature creation process. The interfaces between such services are however until
now not standardized.
The Cloud Signature Consortium aims to fill this gap in standardization by defining the architectural design,
communication protocols, application programming interfaces, data structures, and technical requirements
needed to establish interoperable solutions for cloud-based digital signatures. While these specifications are
applicable in a wide variety of use cases with different security requirements, the fulfilment of requirements
imposed by the eIDAS Regulation of the EU [i.1] is particularly addressed, supporting the creation of “advanced”
or “qualified” electronic signatures and electronic seals in the cloud.
This document contains technical specifications that are intended for use by applications for creating digital
signatures in the cloud and by a variety of applications consuming these services. By implementing their services
according to these specifications, service providers can ensure that services are applicable as parts of complete
digital signature systems in the cloud in a plug and play manner.
Existing standards and open specifications are considered by the consortium as far as applicable.
The following are out of scope of this specification:
Policy requirements for (qualified and other) service providers; this is an area of standardization covered
by ETSI.
Signing key creation and enrollment; although keys MAY be created by the remote service during the
signing workflow, these activities are not covered by specific API methods.
Signature and certificate formats; use of the standards specified by ETSI is RECOMMENDED.
Signature validation; this will be addressed in future specifications from the Consortium.
Security evaluation and requirements for hardware components used to hold signing keys (HSM –
hardware security module); this is being standardized by CEN in Europe and FIPS in the USA.
Internal functionality and internal interfaces in service provider systems.
Note that the current specifications mainly cover architectures where the signing key is held “in the cloud”, i.e. by
a signature creation device managed by a service provider. Architectures where the signing key is in the hand of
the signer, stored in the user’s device or in an attached smart card or similar, are not covered as a particular case.
The consortium will consider the need for further specifications covering situations where a user device holding
the signing key interacts with cloud services for digital signature creation, e.g. cloud services MAY be used for
document storage, hash computation, and signature formatting.
2 Interpretation of Requirement Levels
The keywords “MUST”, “MUST NOT”, “REQUIRED”, “SHALL”, “SHALL NOT”, “SHOULD”, “SHOULD NOT”,
“RECOMMENDED”, “MAY”, and “OPTIONAL” in this document are to be interpreted as described in RFC 2119 [1].
f
6

--- PAGE 7 ---
3 References
3.1 Normative references
The following documents, in whole or in part, are normatively referenced in this specification and are
indispensable for its application. For dated references, only the edition cited applies. For undated references, the
latest edition of the referenced document (including any amendments or errata) applies.
[1] IETF RFC 2119: “Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels”.
[2] IETF RFC 3161: “Internet X.509 Public Key Infrastructure Time-Stamp Protocol (TSP)”.
[3] IETF RFC 3986: “Uniform Resource Identifier (URI): Generic Syntax”.
[4] IETF RFC 4514: “Lightweight Directory Access Protocol (LDAP): String Representation of
Distinguished Names”.
[5] IETF RFC 4627: “The application/json Media Type for JavaScript Object Notation (JSON)”.
[6] IETF RFC 4648: “The Base16, Base32, and Base64 Data Encodings”.
[7] IETF RFC 5246: “The Transport Layer Security (TLS) Protocol Version 1.2”.
[8] IETF RFC 5280: “Internet X.509 Public Key Infrastructure Certificate and Certificate Revocation
List (CRL) Profile”.
[9] IETF RFC 5646: “Tags for Identifying Languages”.
[10] IETF RFC 5816: “ESSCertIDv2 Update for RFC 3161”.
[11] IETF RFC 6749: “The OAuth 2.0 Authorization Framework”.
[12] IETF RFC 6750: “The OAuth 2.0 Authorization Framework: Bearer Token Usage”.
[13] IETF RFC 7009: “OAuth 2.0 Token Revocation”.
[14] IETF RFC 7235: “Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP/1.1): Authentication”.
[15] IETF RFC 7518: “JSON Web Algorithms (JWA)”.
[16] IETF RFC 7519: “JSON Web Token (JWT)”.
[17] void
f
7

--- PAGE 8 ---
[18] IETF RFC 8017: “PKCS #1: RSA Cryptography Specifications Version 2.2”.
[19] IETF RFC 8446: “The Transport Layer Security (TLS) Protocol Version 1.3”.
[20] IETF draft-ietf-oauth-security-topics: “OAuth 2.0 Security Best Current Practice”
[21] ETSI TS 119 312: “Electronic Signatures and Infrastructures (ESI); Cryptographic Suites”.
[22] ISO 3166-1: “Codes for the representation of names of countries and their subdivisions —
Part 1: Country codes”.
[23] IETF RFC 8414: “OAuth 2.0 Authorization Server Metadata”
[24] IETF RFC 7591: “OAuth 2.0 Dynamic Client Registration Protocol”
[25] IETF RFC 7636: “Proof Key for Code Exchange by OAuth Public Clients”
[26] void
[27] IETF RFC 9396: “OAuth 2.0 Rich Authorization Requests”
[28] IETF RFC 9126: “OAuth 2.0 Pushed Authorization Requests”
[29] ETSI EN 319 122-1 “Electronic Signatures and Infrastructures (ESI); CAdES digital signatures;
Part 1: Building blocks and CAdES baseline signatures”
[30] ETSI EN 319 132-1: “Electronic Signatures and Infrastructures (ESI); XAdES digital signatures;
Part 1: Building blocks and XAdES baseline signatures”
[31] ETSI EN 319 142-1: “Electronic Signatures and Infrastructures (ESI); PAdES digital signatures;
Part 1: Building blocks and PAdES baseline signatures”
[32] ETSI TS 119 182-1: “Electronic Signatures and Infrastructures (ESI); JAdES digital signatures;
Part 1: Building blocks and JAdES baseline signatures”
[33] IETF RFC 6960: “X.509 Internet Public Key Infrastructure Online Certificate Status Protocol -
OCSP”
[34] ETSI EN 319 102-1 “Electronic Signatures and Trust Infrastructures (ESI); Procedures for
Creation and Validation of AdES Digital Signatures; Part 1: Creation and Validation”.
[35] IETF RFC 7515: “JSON Web Signature (JWS)”.
f
8

--- PAGE 9 ---
[36] ETSI EN 319 102-1 “Electronic Signatures and Trust Infrastructures (ESI); Procedures for
Creation and Validation of AdES Digital Signatures; Part 1: Creation and Validation”.
[37] Cloud Signature Consortium, “Data model for remote signature applications”, version 1.0.0.
3.2 Informative references
The following documents, in whole or in part, are informatively referenced in this specification and may be a
useful contribution for its application. For dated references, only the edition cited applies. For undated
references, the latest edition of the referenced document (including any amendments or errata) applies.
[i.1] Regulation (EU) No 910/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 July 2014
on electronic identification and trust services for electronic transactions in the internal market and
repealing Directive 1999/93/EC.
[i.2] ETSI SR 019 020: “The framework for standardization of signatures; Standards for AdES digital
signatures in mobile and distributed environment”.
[i.3] IETF RFC 3447: “Public-Key Cryptography Standards (PKCS) #1: RSA Cryptography
Specifications Version 2.1”.
[i.4] IETF RFC 6101: “The Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) Protocol Version 3.0”.
[i.5] CEN EN 419 241-1: “Trustworthy Systems Supporting Server Signing - Part 1: General System
Security Requirements”
[i.6] ISO/IEC 19790: “Information technology - Security techniques - Security requirements for
cryptographic modules”
[i.7] Hickman, Kipp, “The SSL Protocol”, Netscape Communications Corp., Feb 9, 1995
[i.8] ETSI TS 119 001: “Electronic Signatures and Infrastructures (ESI); The framework for
standardization of signatures; Definitions and abbreviations.”
[i.9] void
[i.10] South African Act No. 25 of 30 August 2002: Electronic Communications and Transactions
Act, 2002
[i.11] Web Authentication: An API for accessing Public Key Credentials Level 2, 2021
[i.12] OpenID Connect Core 1.0 incorporating errata set 2, 2023
[i.13] IANA “Level of Assurance (LoA) Profiles”
f
9

--- PAGE 10 ---
[i.15] IETF RFC 9068: “JSON Web Token (JWT) Profile for OAuth 2.0 Access Tokens”
[i.16] IETF RFC 7662: “OAuth 2.0 Token Introspection”
4 Terms, definitions and abbreviations
4.1 Terms and definitions
For the purposes of this specification, the following terms and definitions apply.
access token: credentials used to access protected resources. It’s a string representing an authorization issued to
the client. The string is usually opaque to the client.
Note 1: As defined in IETF RFC 6749 [11].
authentication factor: piece of information and/or process used to authenticate or verify the identity of an
entity.
Note 2: As defined in ISO/IEC 19790 [i.6].
EXAMPLE: A password or PIN.
authorization server: The server issuing access tokens to the client after successfully authenticating the resource
owner and obtaining authorization.
Note 3: As defined in IETF RFC 6749 [11].
base64: Base64 as defined by RFC 4648 [6] Section 4, i.e. standard alphabet with padding SHALL be used. See
also paragraph about Base64 in Conventions section of this document.
base64url: Denotes the URL-safe Base64 encoding as defined in RFC 4648 [6] Section 5 and further precised in
RFC 7515 [35] Section 2 and Appendix C. Padding SHALL NOT be used.
credential: cryptographic object and related data used to support remote digital signatures over the Internet.
Consists of the combination of a public/private key pair (also named “signing key” in CEN EN 419 241-1 [i.5]) and
an X.509 public key certificate managed by a remote signing service provider on behalf of a user.
data to be signed representation: hash of the data to be signed formatted, which is used to compute the digital
signature value.
Note 4: As defined in ETSI TS 119 001 [i.8].
digital signature: data appended to, or a cryptographic transformation (see cryptography) of a data unit that
allows a recipient of the data unit to prove the source and integrity of the data unit and protect against forgery
e.g. by the recipient [i.8]
Note 5: Digital signature is a technical term. Specifically, but not exclusively, aims at supporting legal terms as
electronic signatures, advanced electronic signatures, qualified electronic signatures, electronic seals,
f
10

--- PAGE 11 ---
advanced electronic seals, and qualified electronic seals as per Regulation (EU) No 910/2014 [i.1].
electronic signature: digital signature created by using a certificate issued to a natural person ensuring the
integrity and origin of the document and the signatory commitment to the document content.
Note 6: Electronic signatures used in the present document are meant to specifically, but not exclusively, support
the electronic signatures defined as per Regulation (EU) No 910/2014 [i.1].
electronic seal: digital signature created by using a certificate issued to a legal person or business unit ensuring
the integrity and origin of the document, without necessarily committing to the content.
Note 7: Electronic seals used in the present document are meant to specifically, but not exclusively, support the
electronic seals defined as per Regulation (EU) No 910/2014 [i.1].
identity proofing: process by which the identity of an applicant is verified by the use of evidence attesting to the
required identity attributes
Note 8: Depending on how the claims will be used, different assurance levels will be required when verifying the
claims.
remote service: service implementing the API described in this specification and delivered on the Internet.
remote signing service provider: service provider managing a set of credentials on behalf of multiple users and
allowing them to create a remote signature with a stored credential.
Note 9: A remote signing service provider typically operates an HSM (or functionally equivalent multi-user secure
device) and an authentication service. It manages the users and provides a signing service that can be
accessed over the Internet by means of the API described in this specification.
Note 10: A remote signing service typically manages signing keys and certificates that are created before the
signing operations take place. Another common scenario is when the signing key and the certificate are
created in the course of a signing operation. In the present specification, this is referred to as “Short-Lived
Credential Signing” (also called “ad-hoc” or “on-the-go” credential signing).
remote signature creation device: signature creation device used remotely from signer perspective to provide
control of signing operation on its behalf of the signer.
short-lived credentials: temporary credentials created to sign a specific transaction where those credentials will
then expire or be explicitly revoked shortly after being applied in the signature operation. Methods to create and
manage short-lived credentials across multiple transactions will be handled in a future release of this
specification.
Note 11: Once the end-user has had their claims successfully verified in an identity proofing process, they
become eligible to sign with short-lived credentials. The assurance level of the claims associated with the
identity will determine the trust level that can be achieved with the short-lived credentials.
signature activation data: set of data used to control a given signature operation, performed by a cryptographic
module, on behalf of the signer.
signature activation module: configured software that uses the SAD in order that the signing keys are used
under sole control of the signer.
f
11

--- PAGE 12 ---
Note 12: As defined in CEN EN 419 241-1 [i.5].
signature application: client application or service calling the remote signing service provider to create a remote
signature.
Note 13: A signature application may be a signature creation application.
signature application provider: service provider managing a signature application and offering it as a service
over the Internet or other communication channel.
signature creation application: application that accepts signer’s original document and produces a signature or
signed document in accordance with AdES [36].
Note 14: A signature creation application that invokes a CSC endpoint for remote signing is a special case of a
signature application.
signer’s document representation: hash value of signer’s formatted document. As defined in [34].
signer’s original document: some document types (e.g. PDF, XML, and Json) require formatting before SDR can
be computed. signer’s original document is the original document before any formatting.
signer’s formatted document: some document types (e.g. PDF, XML, and Json) require formatting before SDR
can be computed. signer’s original document is the original document after any formatting. SDR is the hash of
signer’s formatted document.
Note 15: As an example for PDF, signer’s formatted document contains the signature dictionary and other objects
such as signature image.
4.2 Abbreviations
AdES: Advanced Electronic Signature
API: application programming interface
DTBSR: Data to be signed representation
HSM: hardware security module
RSCD: remote signature creation device
RSSP: remote signing service provider
SAD: signature activation data
SAM: signature activation module
SCAL1: sole control assurance level 1
Note 16: As defined in CEN EN 419 241-1 [i.5].
SCAL2: sole control assurance level 2
Note 17: As defined in CEN EN 419 241-1 [i.5].
f
12

--- PAGE 13 ---
SDR: signer’s document representation
SFD: signer’s formatted document
SOD: signer’s original document
SODR: signer’s original document representation (i.e. hash of SOD).
5 Conventions
This specification defers to the CSC Data Model (DM) [37] “Conventions” for data encodings and naming/casing.
Unless an external standard mandates otherwise, Base64 and Base64URL usage (including padding rules) follow
the DM. Wherever this API references a DM-defined data type, the DM’s encoding and naming rules SHALL apply.
6 Architectures and use cases
The present specification and the protocols defined herein aim to support different use cases. However, they
focus on the scenario of remote signing defined for example as “the creation of remote electronic signatures,
where the electronic signature creation environment is managed by a trust service provider on behalf of the
signatory” in EU Regulation 910/2014 [i.1], recital §52.
This means that other scenarios for signing in distributed environments assisted by remote servers – like those
described in ETSI SR 019 020 [i.2](“Standards for AdES digital signatures in mobile and distributed environment”)
– are not covered in the present version of this specification. In particular, use cases where the signing key is
contained within a signer's personal device are not covered: for example, signing a document located on a server
with a private key contained in a mobile SIM card, or in a cryptographic device connected to a personal
computer. These are relevant use cases, although not fitting in the core definition of “remote signature”, so they
may be specifically covered in future updates of the specification.
6.1 Supported architectures
The current version of the specification focuses on the interface between the Signature Application and the
remote signing service provider (RSSP), which performs the remote signing operations and also manages the
lifecycle of the signer’s credentials in coordination with other trust-service components. The following figure
shows a typical but not restrictive example of the architecture.
The following roles are used in this architecture:
Driving Application (DA) – interacts with the signer and orchestrates the signing process.
Relying Party (RP) – the entity requesting a signature.
Signature Creation Application (SCA) – prepares and creates the signature or signed document (e.g., CMS,
PAdES); it may implement the signatures/signDoc endpoint.
Signature Creation Device (SCD) – generates the signature value over the data to be signed; it may implement
the signatures/signHash endpoint.
Authorization Server (AS) – the OAuth 2.0 component where the signer authorizes the operation.
Remote Signing Service Provider (RSSP) – the trust service that operates the remote signing system.
Deployments may vary:
• Some services expose an SCA, handling the complete document-based signing flow.
• Others expose only an SCD, where the DA or an external SCA prepares the data and embeds the returned
signature value.
Both models are valid and interoperable.
f
13

--- PAGE 14 ---
Figure 1: Remote signing corners
There are four main corners in the remote signing scenario.
The Signature Application, acting as an SCA or as a DA working with an external SCA, retrieves the document to
be signed from the user and, when necessary, obtains certificates, revocation information, and time-stamps from
the relevant trust service provider. It requests the remote signing service provider to generate the signature,
either over the document itself (document-based flow) or over the document’s hash value (digest-based flow),
depending on the operation supported. Both approaches use the same authorization, credential, and trust
framework.
The RSSP connects to the CA for the credential binding. In some cases, the CA may also be included in the
process of creating the signing key. In addition to the credential binding process, the RSSP may also implement
credential-management interfaces that allow the secure creation, retrieval, and deletion of signing credentials.
These interfaces operate in coordination with the Certification Authority (Corner B) to ensure that credential
generation and binding are performed under the same assurance and audit requirements as the signing
operations.
Authorization for service or credential access can occur through the Signature Application or via redirection to an
OAuth 2.0 Authorization Server (AS). In many deployments, the AS is operated by the RSSP. This maintains the
four-corner model (RP ↔ DA ↔ SCA/SCD ↔ RSSP) and keeps signer consent and credential access within a
single authorization context.
The redirect-based model employed by OAuth 2.0 allows the RSSP to utilize FIDO/WebAuth [i.11] or 3rd party
identity providers (e.g. via OpenID Connect [i.12] or EUDI Wallet-based identity providers) for user authentication
and credential authorization. This approach ensures that both document-signing and credential-management
operations can be performed under a unified authorization flow, maintaining the same trust boundaries and
four-corner interaction model described above.
7 Introduction to the remote service protocols API
Web applications and services use Application Programming Interfaces (APIs) to talk to each other. Technically
speaking, in the web service context, an API is a set of programming instructions for accessing a Web-based
software application or service.
f
14

--- PAGE 15 ---
The remote service protocols API allows a signature application to communicate with a remote service via the
Internet by leveraging a sequence of calls to methods.
7.1 Format and syntax of the API
This specification defines Web services APIs that are based on technical standards and protocols such as HTTP
and JSON. This API uses HTTP POST requests with JSON payload and JSON responses. JSON is an open-standard
media type format as defined by RFC 4627 [5] that uses human-readable text to transmit data objects consisting
of attribute-value pairs. These properties make JSON an ideal data-interchange language which is used as the
most common data format for asynchronous communications.
The functions offered by the remote service are represented by HTTP RPC endpoints accepting arguments as
JSON in the request body and returning results as JSON in the response body. For this reason, the HTTP header of
the invocation method SHALL include a Content-Type: application/json header.
The remote service SHALL use HTTP version 1.1 or higher.
A JSON schema corresponding to the API defined in the present specification is available. See [JSON schema and
OpenAPI description].
7.2 Remote service base URI
The remote service base URI defines the style and format of the HTTP endpoint URI of a remote service
conforming to this specification.
The base URI contains the version number of the APIs that is implemented by the remote signing service
provider. In the case of this specification, the version number SHALL be v2. Future versions of this specification
MAY not be completely backward compatible.
https://service.domain.org/xxx/csc/v2/
The base URI SHALL start with an arbitrary URL defined by the service provider (‘https://service.domain.org/xxx’
in the example above) and SHALL end with ‘/csc/v2’. The endpoints of the API methods documented in this
specification SHALL be concatenated to the base URI. An exception is given by the OAuth 2.0 methods, as defined
in OAuth 2.0 Authorization, which MAY use URIs that are independent of the service base URI.
7.3 Integrity and confidentiality
A remote service conforming to this specification SHALL guarantee the integrity and confidentiality of the
communication channel between the signature application and the remote service.
The integrity and confidentiality of the communication channel between the user and the signature application
or the remote service are out of the scope of this specification.
The remote service SHOULD implement Transport Layer Security (TLS) in order to ensure the integrity and
confidentiality of the communications. This prevents easy eavesdropping or impersonation if authentication
credentials are hijacked. Another advantage of always using TLS is that guaranteed encrypted communications
simplifies the authentication schemes, so for example simple mechanisms like Basic HTTP authentication can be
used because the elements used in the authentication (username and password) are always transmitted over an
encrypted channel.
The remote service MAY use other methods than TLS, for example using VPN.
f
15

--- PAGE 16 ---
TLS 1.3 as described in RFC 8446 [19] is, at the time of this writing, the latest version of TLS. Until TLS 1.3 is
widely adopted, the previous version TLS 1.2 as described in RFC 5246 [7] SHALL be supported by remote
services conforming to this specification and is the RECOMMENDED mechanism to use for interoperability
reasons. TLS 1.2 provides access to advanced cipher suites that support elliptic curve cryptography and
authenticated encryption with associated data (AEAD) block cipher modes. TLS 1.1 MAY be used, but it is also
less secure. TLS 1.0 is considerably less secure and some security certifications like PCI DSS 3.1 explicitly forbid it,
so remote services SHOULD NOT support it.
All versions of SSL (SSLv3 as defined in RFC 6101 [i.4] or SSLv2 as defined in [i.7]), the security protocol used
before TLS, are considered insecure. Remote services conforming to this specification SHALL NOT implement SSL.
7.4 Remote service information
This specification defines a protocol to connect a signature application to a remote service. Other similar
specifications exist in the industry, but they are typically proprietary and incompatible between each other, so if
a signature application wants to support multiple remote services, then the development effort would increase
significantly.
This specification has been designed to support modular services that may be implemented in line with the
capacity and mission of the provider. This means that a remote service that supports this specification MAY
implement only a subset of the API methods defined herein. In order to facilitate this approach, this specification
defines the info method, which all remote services SHALL implement to allow the signature application to
discover which of the API methods are supported.
In addition, the info method returns information on the remote service which may be useful to a calling
application to access the functions and features of the service.
7.5 clientData parameter
Most methods allow to provide clientData as an optional input parameter. It can contain any arbitrary data from
the signature application. This data allows the signature application to handle other application-specific data like,
e.g., a transaction identifier.
The remote service MAY use this information, and it MAY also log this data together with information of the call.
This parameter MAY expose sensitive data to the remote service. Therefore, it SHOULD be used carefully by
signature applications.
7.6 Expressing algorithms
The present document expresses algorithms via Object IDentifiers (OID). OIDs are identifiers standardized by the
Internal Telecommunication Union (ITU) and ISO/IEC to identify a specific object. They are represented by
numbers, separated by dots, and are constructed in a tree-like structure. A list of the most common OIDs for
algorithms used in signatures can be found in chapter 10 of ETSI TS 119 312 [21]. See also the OID repository
http://oid-info.com in search of specific OIDs.
8 Authentication and authorization
This specification supports the following types of authentication and authorization:
a. Service authorization and authentication.
b. Credential creation authorization.
c. Credential deletion authorization.
d. Credential authorization.
f
16

--- PAGE 17 ---
8.1 Types of authorization
8.1.1 Service authorization and authentication
In order to protect the remote service from unauthorized access, this specification requires the signature
application to obtain a valid “access token” to authorize the access to the APIs. This type of authorization is called
service authorization. Various types of authorization mechanisms can be supported, and more will be supported
in future versions, and the signature application SHALL adopt any of those available from the remote service as
stated in the response to the info method, as defined in info.
The remote service MAY also adopt an indirect way of authorizing access to the API. The underlying
communication channel with the signature application MAY ensure access control in a different way, for example
with a private point-to-point LAN connection or through a VPN (Virtual Private Network).
The access to the APIs SHALL be authenticated.
When the authentication is under the control of the signature application provider, then the user SHALL be
properly authenticated by this provider before getting access to the remote service. This scenario supports
organizations that manage a user community with an existing form of authentication, for example a Bank
managing the users from their Internet Banking service. This means that, in order to retrieve the signing
credentials associated to a user, this organization would have to take care of the correspondence between the
user identifier in their own domain and the user identifier in the remote service’s domain.
When the authentication is under the control of the remote service, the signature application SHALL perform a
token-based authentication to the remote service by means of authentication factors collected from the user,
preferably via an OAuth 2.0 authorization mechanism, or through HTTP Basic or HTTP Digest authentication. In
case the signature application is not under the control of the user, OAuth 2.0 authorization SHOULD be used. In
practice, the signature application will require the user to authenticate directly to the remote service using any of
the available methods. This would offer an authentication mechanism even in case the signature application and
the remote service have not previously established any form of service authentication.
This specification defines two methods to obtain service authorization:
The oauth2/token method SHALL be used when an OAuth 2.0 authorization mechanism is supported by
the remote service. The signature application will not collect any authentication factors from the user, but
instead it will redirect to the remote service that will authenticate the user. See OAuth 2.0 Authorization
for further information on how to implement OAuth 2.0 authorization.
The auth/login method SHALL be used when OAuth 2.0 is not available and HTTP Basic or Digest
authentication mechanisms are preferred and supported by the remote service. The signature application
will collect the authentication factors from the user and will submit them to the remote service to obtain
an authorization.
In both cases, if the user grants authorization, the remote service will return a service access token to the
signature application. From then on, all authenticated requests to the API methods defined in this specification
SHALL use an Authorization header with Bearer type followed by that service access token.
If the user does not grant the authorization, the authorization server will return an error message and no access
to authenticated API methods will be possible.
8.1.2 Credential creation authorization
It requires authorization from the user to create a credential bound to that user.
This specification only support OAuth 2.0 authorization to grant credential creation authorization:
f
17

--- PAGE 18 ---
The oauth2/authorize and oauth2/token methods are used to obtain an OAuth 2.0 access token that
grants credential creation authorization.
8.1.3 Credential deletion authorization
Some RSSPs may have special requirements for authorizing the deletion of a credential. To support such
requirements this specification defines credential deletion authorization.
This specification only support OAuth 2.0 authorization to grant credential deletion authorization:
The oauth2/authorize and oauth2/token methods are used to obtain an OAuth 2.0 access token that
grants credential deletion authorization.
8.1.4 Credential authorization
Accessing a credential for remote signing requires an authorization from the user who owns the signing key
associated to it. As a special case, the user might also authorize the creation of one or more signatures along
with a signature qualifier instead of a particular credential identification. This is especially useful in conjunction
with short-lived credentials.
The remote service can manage the authorization in multiple ways, with different technologies and a variable
number of authorization factors. This really depends on the implementation and on the policy adopted by the
remote service, and MAY also be determined by the level of compliance to industry and regulatory requirements,
like in the case of standards like CEN EN 419 241-1 [i.5], which defines different “sole control assurance levels”,
SCAL1 and SCAL2.
For a precise description of the difference between SCAL1 and SCAL2 we refer to CEN EN 419 241-1 [i.5].
However, with regard to this specification, two aspects should be noted about SCAL2:
1. The signature activation data, used to authorize a signature, is linked to the document or the documents
to be signed.
2. A two-factor authorization is needed to authorize a signature.
This specification defines two methods to obtain credential authorization:
The credentials/authorize method is used for explicit authorization.
The oauth2/authorize method is used to obtain an OAuth 2.0 access token that grants credential
authorization.
Explicit authorization means that the remote service relies on the signature application to collect, in its own
environment, authentication factors like PIN or One-Time Passwords (OTP), according to the parameters returned
by the credentials/info method, as defined in credentials/info. This method returns the type, format and
combination of required or optional authentication factors, such that the signature application can show the
proper interactive controls to collect them from the user. The explicit authorization is then done by calling the
credentials/authorize method.
A common type of explicit authorization is based on a static PIN - typically defined by the user - associated to the
signing key when it is generated. To increase the level of assurance of user control, ensuring that only the
authorized user can create a signature with a certain credential, a stronger authorization factor MAY be adopted.
A dynamically generated text-based One-Time Password (OTP) is a common strong authorization mechanism.
This specification directly supports the combination of various mechanisms which can be used complementary to
service authorization to achieve the highest levels of assurance of the user’s sole control, and can be used to
support SCAL1 and SCAL2 as defined in CEN 419 241-1 [i.5].
Biometric authentication and phone call drop are other examples of possible authorization mechanisms. As these
and other authorization mechanisms require a very peculiar user interface, they can be supported by means of
an OAuth 2.0-based authorization scheme.
f
18

--- PAGE 19 ---
8.2 OAuth 2.0 Authorization
OAuth 2.0 is an authorization framework that enables applications to obtain access to HTTP based services. It
provides client applications a “secure delegated access” to server resources on behalf of a resource owner. In the
context of this specification, the signature application is the client application. This allows resource owners to
authorize third-party access to their server resources without sharing their credentials.
Using the OAuth 2.0 authorization scheme, the signature application will use the remote service’s authorization
server for user authentication and access authorization. After a successful authentication and authorization, the
authorization server of the remote service will provide the signature application with an access token that the
signing application will use to authorize access to the remote service’s resources.
The following OAuth 2.0 grant types as defined in RFC 6749 [11] MAY be used:
Authorization Code
Client Credentials
Refresh Token
The implicit grant SHALL NOT be used, due to security flaws.
Any provider implementing an OAuth 2.0 authorization flow SHALL follow the recommendations from OAuth 2.0
Security Best Current Practice [20]. The OAuth 2.0 authorization mechanisms can be used for different use cases,
determined by the respective scope.
The following scopes are defined by this specification:
“service” - used to request service authorization.
“credential-creation” - used to request credential creation authorization for creating a new credential.
“credential-deletion” - used to request credential deletion authorization for deleting a credential.
“credential” - used to request credential authorization for creating one or more signatures with a certain
credential or fulfilling the requirements of a certain signature qualifier.
A remote service can implement a single OAuth 2.0 authorization server supporting all aforementioned scopes
(and possibly more) or just some of them.
In order to be able to use an OAuth 2.0 authorization mechanism, the signing application needs to be in
possession of an OAuth client_id valid for the respective OAuth authorization server and corresponding
credentials. The way this client_id is set up and the client authentication mechanism used is out of scope for
this specification. Implementations can utilize any of the client authentication methods defined in the IANA
“OAuth Token Endpoint Authentication Methods” registry established by IETF RFC 7591 [24].
The following sections describe the OAuth 2.0 endpoints supported by this specification and how to invoke them.
Notice that the Client Credential flow is not described separately because it can be invoked by means of the
oauth2/token endpoint, as defined in oauth2/token, using a grant_type with value “client_credentials”.
Tokens issued by OAuth 2.0 authorization endpoints SHOULD be revoked by using the authorization server’s
revocation endpoint oauth2/revoke, as defined in oauth2/revoke, if supported. Tokens MAY also be revoked by
calling the remote service’s auth/revoke method, as defined in auth/revoke, if supported.
The info method, as defined in info, provides the signing application with the OAuth endpoints location
information. There are two options for the remote service:
the parameter oauth2 provides a base URL for all OAuth 2.0 endpoints. The URI path components of the
supported OAuth 2.0 endpoints specified in oauth2/authorize, oauth2/pushed_authorize, oauth2/token,
and oauth2/revoke SHALL be concatenated to the OAuth 2.0 base URI.
the parameter oauth2Issuer provides the issuer URL of authorization server. The signing application
SHALL obtain all endpoint URLs and further metadata about the OAuth authorization server as specified
f
19

--- PAGE 20 ---
in IETF RFC 8414 “OAuth 2.0 Authorization Server Metadata” [23]. This prevents security (trustworthiness
of endpoints) and operational (endpoints change) issues.
Note 18: OAuth in conjunction with the authorization code flow gives the authorization server full screen control
in the course of the authorization process. This allows the authorization server to utilize user
authentication means at its own discretion without the need for this specification to cater for certain
authentication means. This, for example, allows authorization servers to utilize FIDO/WebAuth [i.11] for
strong and (optionally) password less authentication. The authorization server may use the WebAuthn API
as exposed by the user agent to authenticate the user based on the keys maintained in the platform or
external authenticator.
8.2.1 Restricted access to authorization servers
OAuth 2.0 authorization frameworks typically offer an open and unrestricted authorization endpoint. In the
context of the authorization server of a remote service, this means that a user will have no restrictions while
accessing the oauth2/authorize endpoint, as defined in oauth2/authorize.
However, a remote service may need to restrict users from accessing its authorization server. There are two
common cases when a restriction would be desirable: with remote services connected to Corporate Identity
Management services or connected to public Electronic Identity (eID) frameworks. In the former case, the
remote service may be required to prevent access to users that are not affiliated with the Corporate, in the latter
the remote service may be restricted to avoid abuse by unauthorized users.
To restrict access to the authorization server of a remote service, this specification introduces the additional
account_token parameter to be used when calling the oauth2/authorize endpoint. This parameter contains a
secure token designed to authenticate the authorization request based on an Account ID that SHALL be uniquely
assigned by the signature application to the signing user or to the user’s application account.
In case a RSSP wants to provide restricted access to its authorization server, it SHOULD register in advance the
Account ID of the authorized users that need to have access to the oauth2/authorize endpoint.
The means and actions required to exchange and register an Account ID between users and the RSSP are out of
the scope of this specification.
The account_token parameter is based on a JSON Web Token (JWT), defined as follows, according to the RFC
7519 [16]:
JWT_Header
JWT_Payload
JWT_Signature
account_token = base64UrlEncode(<JWT_Header>) + "." +
                base64UrlEncode(<JWT_Payload>) + "." +
                base64UrlEncode(<JWT_Signature>)
<JWT_Header> = {
   "typ": "JWT",
   "alg": "HS256"
}
<JWT_Payload> = {
   "sub": <Account_ID>,                  //Account ID
   "iat": <Unix_Epoch_Time>,             //Issued At Time
   "jti": <Token_Unique_Identifier>,     //JWT ID
   "iss": <Signature_Application_Name>,  //Issuer
   "azp": <OAuth2_client_id>             //Authorized presenter
}
f
20

--- PAGE 21 ---
Parameters
ParameterPresence Value Description
typ REQUIREDString
JWT
The Header Parameter used to indicate that this object is a JSON Web Token (JWT) according to RFC
7519 [16] Section 5.1.
alg REQUIREDString
HS256
The Header Parameter used to indicate that the algorithm of the signature of the JWT is HMAC using
SHA-256 according to RFC 7518 [15] Section 3.1.
sub REQUIREDStringThe client-defined Account ID that allows the RSSP to identify the account or user initiating the
authorization transaction.
iat REQUIREDIntegerThe Unix Epoch time when the account_token was issued. The value is used to determine the age of
the JWT. The RSSP SHOULD define the lifetime of the JWT and SHALL accept or reject an account_token
based on its own expiration policy.
jti REQUIREDStringA unique identifier for the JWT. This protects from replay attacks performed by reusing the same
account_token .
iss OPTIONALStringContains the name of the issuer of the token (e.g. the commercial name of the signature application).
azp REQUIREDStringContains the unique “client ID” previously assigned to the signature application by the remote service.
Implementation notes
The RSSP SHALL securely share the OAuth 2.0 client_id and client_secret with the signature application as
part of the OAuth 2.0 configuration (see OAuth 2.0 Authorization).
The JWT_signature required to generate the account_token SHALL be calculated with the HMAC function,
using as shared secret the SHA256 hash of the OAuth 2.0 client_secret.
The signature application SHOULD register in advance with the RSSP the list of Account ID parameters
associated with those users that are authorized to access a restricted authorization server.
Example
…?
account_token=eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJzdWIiOiI3S1lCckpBLWtCOTF5T1Rld1JZRzh5SGdzN3EtbzR
1NiIsImlhdCI6MTUzNzAxMjgwMCwianRpIjoiYjgzZmY4OWEtZWQzZi00NjgxLTgyOGQtNzE2MGI5MTNjYTcyIiwiaXNzIjoiQ1NDI
FNpZ25hdHVyZSBBcHBsaWNhdGlvbiIsImF6cCI6ImE4NzliNDE5LThmZWQtNDcyZS05Yzk3LTJmODk3NTIxODU3ZSJ9.SEwD3KGDPF
X-8IIJE7pC_RJ-0wdOVinEPTHmKKVQb6E&…
8.2.2 oauth2/authorize
Description
This is the OAuth 2.0 authorization endpoint. It SHALL process OAuth 2.0 authorization requests using the
Authorization Code flow as described in Section 1.3.1 of RFC 6749 [11].
This endpoint can be used in two modes. The application either sends all authorization request parameters to
this endpoint, which is the classical mode as defined in RFC 6749 [11]. Alternatively, the application can first push
the authorization request payload to the authorization server via the “pushed authorization request endpoint” as
defined in RFC 9126 [28] and use the request URI produced as parameter to the authorization endpoints. This
section describes the authorization request parameters for both modes. The pushed authorization endpoint and
the use of the pushed authorization request mode is described in oauth2/pushed_authorize.
<JWT_Signature> = HMACSHA256(
   base64UrlEncode(<JWT_Header>) + "." +
   base64UrlEncode(<JWT_Payload>),
   SHA256(<OAuth2_client_secret>)
)
f
21

--- PAGE 22 ---
The authorization server MAY support any of the scopes described in this section. The authorization server MAY
also support use of “authorization_details” as defined in RFC 9396 [27] in conjunction with the authorization
detail types described in this section. This document uses the term “scope” to cover both access tokens with one
of the defined scopes and access tokens with one of the corresponding authorization details.
Note 19: Be aware that oauth2/authorize is designed as an unauthenticated endpoint. A provider offering this
endpoint SHOULD protect the service from abuse and customer’s risk. This is especially true when used for
credential authorization. The authorization server MAY need to (re-)authenticate the user through the user
agent before establishing a different, potentially cost-generating channel to the user (e.g. sending a push
notification). A provider MAY apply practices like session cookies or HTML5 session storage in order to
retain a good user experience, while addressing and mitigating related security issues. A provider MAY also
implement individual access authorization mechanisms on the oauth2/authorize endpoint. The means for
achieving this are beyond the scope of this specification.
Input
Note 20: Although RFC 3986 [3] doesn’t define length limits on URIs, there are practical limits imposed by
browsers and web servers. It is RECOMMENDED not to exceed a URI length of 2083 characters for
maximum interoperability.
Input parameters defined in OAuth 2.0
f
22

--- PAGE 23 ---
Parameter Presence ValueDefined by Description
response_type REQUIREDStringRFC 6749
[11]
see RFC 6749 [11], section 4.1.1. The value SHALL be “code”.
client_id REQUIREDStringRFC 6749
[11]
see RFC 6749 [11], section 4.1.1.
redirect_uri REQUIRED
Conditional
StringRFC 6749
[11]
The URL where the user will be redirected after the authorization process
has completed. The authorization is required to exactly match the
parameter value with the pre-registered values. Only a valid URI pre-
registered with the remote service SHALL be passed.
If omitted, the remote service will use the default redirect URI pre-
registered by the signature application.
scope OPTIONALStringRFC 6749
[11]
The scope of the access request as described by Section 3.3 of RFC 6749
[11]. This specification defines the following scopes:
“service”: SHALL be used to obtain an authorization code suitable
for service authorization. See Service scope.
“credential-creation”: SHALL be used to obtain an authorization
code suitable for creating a new credential. See Credential creation
scope and authorization details.
“credential-deletion”: SHALL be used to obtain an authorization
code suitable for deleting a credential. See Credential deletion
scope and authorization details.
“credential”: it SHALL be used to obtain an authorization code
suitable for credentials authorization. The scope of the request
might be further detailed using request parameters as defined in
Credential scope and authorization details.
The parameter is OPTIONAL. If neither the scope nor the
authorization_details parameter is provided, the authorization server
SHALL use a default scope of “service”. This parameter SHALL NOT be
present if the authorization_details parameter is specified.
authorization_detailsOPTIONALStringIETF RFC
9396 [27]
The details of the access request as described in IETF RFC 9396 [27]. This
specification defines the following authorization details type:
“credential-creation”: SHALL be used to obtain an authorization
code suitable for creating a new credential. See Credential creation
scope and authorization details.
“credential-deletion”: SHALL be used to obtain an authorization
code suitable for deleting a credential. See Credential deletion
scope and authorization details.
“credential”: SHALL be used to obtain an authorization code
suitable for credentials authorization. See Credential scope and
authorization details.
The parameter is OPTIONAL. If this parameter is present, the scope
parameter SHALL NOT be used. The authorization details SHOULD be used
for the above types, since it allows a more detailed information on the
documents to be signed.
code_challenge REQUIREDStringRFC 7636
[25]
Cryptographic nonce binding the transaction to a certain user agent, used
to detect code replay and CSRF attacks. See IETF RFC 7636 [25] and the
IETF OAuth Security BCP [20], section 2.2, for details.
code_challenge_methodOPTIONALStringRFC 7636
[25]
Code verifier transformation method as defined in IETF RFC 7636 [25],
defaults to plain. The recommended value is S256.
state OPTIONALStringRFC 6749
[11]
see RFC 6749 [11], section 4.1.1.
request_uri REQUIRED
Conditional
StringIETF RFC
9126 [28]
URI pointing to a pushed authorization request previously uploaded by the
client.
This parameter SHALL only be used in conjunction with the client_id. All
other parameters SHALL NOT be combined with this parameter.
This specification defines the following additional parameters:
f
23

--- PAGE 24 ---
ParameterPresence ValueDescription
lang OPTIONALStringRequest a preferred language according to RFC 5646 [9].
If specified, the authorization server SHOULD render the authorization web page in this language, if
supported. If omitted and an Accept-Language header is passed, the authorization server SHOULD
render the authorization web page in the language declared by the header value, if supported. The
authorization server SHALL render the web page in its own preferred language otherwise.
This parameter SHALL NOT be used if authorization_details is used.
clientDataOPTIONALStringArbitrary data from the signature application. It can be used to handle a transaction identifier or other
application-spe specific data that may be useful for debugging purposes. This parameter SHALL NOT be
used if authorization_details is used. WARNING: this parameter MAY expose sensitive data to the
remote service. Therefore, it SHOULD be used carefully.
See below for scope specific input parameters and authorization details.
Output
After a successful authorization, the authorization server SHALL redirect the user-agent by sending the HTTP/1.1
302 Found response with a Location header containing the URI specified by the redirect_uri parameter and
adding the following values as query component using the “application/x-www-form-urlencoded” format.
Attribute Presence Value Description
code REQUIREDString The authorization code generated by the authorization server.
It SHALL be bound to the client identifier and the redirection
URI. It SHALL expire shortly after it is issued to mitigate the
risk of leaks. The signature application cannot use the value
more than once.
state REQUIRED
Conditional
String Contains the arbitrary data from the signature application that
was specified in the state attribute of the input request. It
SHALL be returned when specified in the request.
error REQUIRED
Conditional
String
invalid_request | access_denied |
unsupported_response_type |
invalid_scope | server_error |
temporarily_unavailable
A single error code string from the following list:
“invalid_request”: it SHALL be used if the request is
missing a required parameter.
“access_denied”: it SHALL be used if the server denied
the request.
“unsupported_response_ty pe”: it SHALL be used if
the server does not support the required response
type.
“invalid_scope”: it SHALL be used if the requested
scope is invalid, unknown, or malformed.
“server_error”: it SHALL be used if the server
encountered an unexpected condition that prevented
it from fulfilling the request.
“temporarily_unavailable” : it SHALL be used if the
server is currently unable to handle the request due to
temporary overload or maintenance .
It SHALL be returned only in case of an error.
error_descriptionOPTIONALString Human-readable text providing additional error information.
It MAY be returned only in case of an error.
error_uri OPTIONALString A URI identifying a human-readable web page with
information about the error. It MAY be returned only in case
of an error.
Service scope
An access token with “service” scope gives service authorization to access the CSC API.
Access tokens with certain other scopes also grants service authorization:
f
24

--- PAGE 25 ---
An access token with “credential” scope also grants service authorization for credentials/info and
signatures/signHash.
An access token with “credential” scope in conjunction with a credential id or credential qualifier also
grants service authorization for signatures/signDoc.
An access token with “credential-creation” scope also grants service authorization for credentials/create.
An access token with “credential-deletion” scope also grants service authorization for credentials/delete.
As a consequence, an application that has obtained an access token with one of these scopes does not need an
additional access token with scope “service” in order to use these requests. This is useful to save the additional
round-trip for service authorization. Using signatures/signDoc with a signature qualifier to create signatures is
one example. In this case, the signing application does not need to look up the available certificates before
starting the credential authorization process.
Note 21: In the course of authorizing “credential”, “credential-creation”, or “credential-deletion” scope, the
authorization server authenticates the client and conveys the client identity in the respective access token
(which is equivalent to the service authorization).
Examples
Sample Request (Service authorization)
GET https://www.domain.org/oauth2/authorize?
  response_type=code&
  client_id=<OAuth2_client_id>&
  redirect_uri=<OAuth2_redirect_uri>&
  scope=service&
  code_challenge=K2-ltc83acc4h0c9w6ESC_rEMTJ3bww-uCHaoeK1t8U&
  code_challenge_method=S256&
  lang=en-US&
  state=12345678
Sample Response (Service authorization)
HTTP/1.1 302 Found
Location: <OAuth2_redirect_uri>?
  code=FhkXf9P269L8g&
  state=12345678
Credential creation scope and authorization details
It requires credential creation authorization to access the credentials/create endpoint. An oauth2 access token
with either “credential-creation” scope or “credential-creation” type authorization details grants credential
creation authorization.
Note 22: Authorization could be granted by the user in an Authorization Code flow. Alternatively, authorization
could be granted directly to a trusted signature application with the Client Credential flow.
An authorization details object of type “credential-creation” consists of the parameters in the following table:
f
25

--- PAGE 26 ---
Parameter Presence Value Description
type REQUIREDString The authorization details type identifier. It MUST be set to either
"https://cloudsignatureconsortium.org/2025/credential-
creation" or "credential-creation". It SHOULD be set to
"https://cloudsignatureconsortium.org/2025/credential-
creation".
acr_values OPTIONALArray of String List of requested Authentication Context Class Reference (ACR)
values as defined in RFC 9396 [27]. This parameter allows to
control how users authenticate for certificate issuance. LOA
values defined in [i.13] MAY be used.
credentialCreationRequestREQUIREDcredentialCreationRequestCertificate policy and possibly subject data to be authorized. The
credentialCreationRequest JSON object is defined in the CSC data
model [37]. Subject data MAY be specified in the
credentialCreationRequest. Alternatively, the authorization
server MAY collect relevant subject data and make it available in
the access token or at the token introspection endpoint.
Examples
Sample Request (Credential creation authorization request with authorization details)
GET https://service.domain.org/oauth2/authorize?
  response_type=code&
  client_id=wallet-client-123&
  redirect_uri=https%3A%2F%2Fwallet.example.com%2Fcb&
  code_challenge=nYv8mC9kK2ltc83acc4hc9w6ESC_rEMTJ3bww-uCHaoeK1t8U&
  code_challenge_method=S256&
  
authorization_details=%5B%7B%22type%22%3A%22https%3A%2F%2Fcloudsignatureconsortium.org%2F2025%2Fcreden
tial-
creation%22%2C%22acr_values%22%3A%5B%22http%3A%2F%2Feidas.europa.eu%2FLoA%2Fhigh%22%5D%2C%22credential
CreationRequest%22%3A%7B%22certificatePolicy%22%3A%220.4.0.194112.1.2%22%2C%22subjectData%22%3A%7B%22f
amily_name%22%3A%22Doe%22%2C%22given_name%22%3A%22Alice%22%2C%22birthdate%22%3A%221980-12-
01%22%7D%7D%7D%5D%0A
Decoded authorization_details parameter
Sample Response
HTTP/1.1 302 Found
Location: https://wallet.example.com/cb?code=SplxlOBeZQQYbYS6WxSbIA
Sample Request (Credential creation authorization request)
GET https://service.domain.org/oauth2/authorize?
  response_type=code&
  client_id=wallet-client-123&
  redirect_uri=https%3A%2F%2Fwallet.example.com%2Fcb&
  scope=credential-creation&
  state=af0ifjsldkj&
  code_challenge=nYv8mC9kK2ltc83acc4hc9w6ESC_rEMTJ3bww-uCHaoeK1t8U&
  code_challenge_method=S256
[
  {
    "type": "https://cloudsignatureconsortium.org/2025/credential-creation",
    "acr_values": [ "http://eidas.europa.eu/LoA/high" ],
    "credentialCreationRequest": {
      "certificatePolicy": "0.4.0.194112.1.2",
      "subjectData": {
        "family_name": "Doe",
        "given_name": "Alice",
        "birthdate": "1980-12-01"
      }
    }
  }
]
f
26

--- PAGE 27 ---
Sample Response
HTTP/1.1 302 Found
Location: https://wallet.example.com/cb?code=SplxlOBeZQQYbYS6WxSbIA&state=af0ifjsldkj
Credential deletion scope and authorization details
It requires credential deletion authorization to access the credentials/delete endpoint. An oauth2 access token
with either “credential-deletion” scope or “credential-deletion” type authorization details grants credential
deletion authorization.
Note 23: Authorization could be granted to a trusted signature application with the Client Credential flow.
An authorization details object of type “credential-deletion” consists of the parameters in the following table:
Parameter Presence Value Description
type REQUIREDString The authorization details type identifier. It MUST be set to either
"https://cloudsignatureconsortium.org/2025/credential-
deletion" or "credential-deletion". It SHOULD be set to
"https://cloudsignatureconsortium.org/2025/credential-
deletion".
credentialID REQUIREDString Unique identifier of the credential to delete. Credential identifiers
can be retrieved with the credentials/list endpoint.
Examples
Sample Request (Credential deletion authorization request with authorization details)
GET https://service.domain.org/oauth2/authorize?
  response_type=code&
  client_id=<Oauth2_client_id>&
  redirect_uri=https%3A%2F%2Fexample.com%2Fcb&
  code_challenge=nYv8mC9kK2ltc83acc4hc9w6ESC_rEMTJ3bww-uCHaoeK1t8U&
  code_challenge_method=S256&
  
authorization_details=%5B%7B%22type%22%3A%22https%3A%2F%2Fcloudsignatureconsortium.org%2F2025%2Fcreden
tial-deletion%22%2C%22credentialID%22%3A%223F5A12%22%7D%5D
Decoded authorization_details parameter
Sample Response
HTTP/1.1 302 Found
Location: https://wallet.example.com/cb?code=SplxlOBeZQQYbYS6WxSbIA
Sample Request (Credential deletion authorization request)
GET https://service.domain.org/oauth2/authorize?
  response_type=code&
  client_id=wallet-client-123&
  redirect_uri=https%3A%2F%2Fwallet.example.com%2Fcb&
  scope=credential-deletion&
  state=af0ifjsldkj&
  code_challenge=nYv8mC9kK2ltc83acc4hc9w6ESC_rEMTJ3bww-uCHaoeK1t8U&
  code_challenge_method=S256
[
  {
    "type": "https://cloudsignatureconsortium.org/2025/credential-deletion",
    "credentialID": "3F5A12"
  }
]
f
27

--- PAGE 28 ---
Sample Response
HTTP/1.1 302 Found
Location: https://wallet.example.com/cb?code=SplxlOBeZQQYbYS6WxSbIA&state=af0ifjsldkj
Credential scope and authorization details
It requires credential authorization to sign. An oauth2 access token with either “credential” scope or “credential”
type authorization details grants credential authorization.
An access token with the “credential” scope can be used instead of a classical “SAD” as obtained via
credentials/authorize or credentials/extendTransaction. Such an access token will be sent to the remote signing
API in the AUTHORIZATION header. For backward compatibility, it can also be sent as “SAD” parameter value.
If the SCAL attribute returned by the credentials/info method for the current credentialID is “2” and the scope is
“credential”, then either the parameter authorization_details or hashes as defined below SHALL be specified.
Input parameters defined in this specification
The table below contains additional parameters to oauth2/authorize. These parameters SHALL NOT be used if
the authorization_details parameter is used.
Parameter Presence Value Description
credentialIDREQUIRED
Conditional
String The identifier associated to the credential to authorize. It SHALL be used only if
the scope of the OAuth 2.0 authorization request is “credential”. It SHALL NOT be
used if authorization_details is present. At least one of the two values
credentialID and signatureQualifier SHALL be present, both values MAY be
present. Be aware that this parameter value may contain characters that are
reserved, unsafe or forbidden in URLs and therefore SHALL be url-encoded by the
signature application.
signatureQualifierREQUIRED
Conditional
signatureQualifierThis parameter contains the symbolic identifier determining the kind of signature
to be created as defined in signatures/signDoc. It SHALL be used only if the scope
of the OAuth 2.0 authorization request is “credential”. It SHALL NOT be used if
authorization_details is present. At least one of the two values credentialID and
signatureQualifier SHALL be present, both values MAY be present.
numSignaturesREQUIRED
Conditional
Integer The number of signatures to authorize. Multi-signature transactions can be
obtained by using a combination of array of hash values and by calling multiple
times the signatures/signHash method, as defined in signatures/signHash. It
SHALL be used only if the scope of the OAuth 2.0 authorization request is
“credential”. It SHALL NOT be used if authorization_details is present.
hashes REQUIRED
Conditional
String One or more base64url-encoded hash values to be signed. It allows the server to
bind the access token to the hash, thus preventing an authorization to be used to
sign a different content. This parameter SHALL be used only if the scope of the
OAuth 2.0 authorization request is “credential”. If the SCAL attribute returned by
the credentials/info method for the current credentialID is not “2” this
parameter is OPTIONAL. If the SCAL attribute returned by the credentials/info
method for the current credentialID is “2” and the scope is “credential”, then
either this parameter or the authorization_details parameter SHALL be
specified.
Multiple hash values can be passed as comma separated values,
e.g. oauth2/authorize?hash=dnN3ZX.. .ZmRm,ZjIxM3… Z2Zk,…
The order of multiple values does not have to match the order of hashes passed
to signatures/signHash method.
hashAlgorithmOIDREQUIRED
Conditional
String String containing the OID of the hash algorithm used to generate the hash values.
description OPTIONALString A free form description of the authorization transaction in the lang language. The
maximum size of the string is 500 characters. It can be useful to provide some
hints about the occurring transaction.
account_token OPTIONALString An account_token as defined in Restricted access to authorization servers. It MAY
be required by a RSSP if their authorization server has a restricted access. The
value is a JSON Web Token (JWT) according to RFC 7519 [16].
f
28

--- PAGE 29 ---
Authorization details type “credential”
The authorization details type credential allows applications to pass the details of a certain credential
authorization in a single JSON object. The authorization_details parameter of oauth2/authorize SHALL NOT be
used if the custom parameters above are used. The authorization details object is the union of the following:
signatureCreationApproval (see the CSC data model [37])
The parameters in the table below
Parameter Presence Value Description
type REQUIREDString The authorization details type identifier. It MUST be set to either
"https://cloudsignatureconsortium.org/2025/credential"
or "credential". It SHOULD be set to
"https://cloudsignatureconsortium.org/2025/credential".
locations OPTIONALArray of String The locations of remote signing service providers as defined in RFC
9396 [i.4]. This designates the locations of the API to which access
is authorized.
Examples
Sample Request (Credential authorization)
GET https://www.domain.org/oauth2/authorize?
  response_type=code&
  client_id=<OAuth2_client_id>&
  redirect_uri=<OAuth2_redirect_uri>&
  scope=credential&
  code_challenge=K2-ltc83acc4h0c9w6ESC_rEMTJ3bww-uCHaoeK1t8U&
  code_challenge_method=S256&
  credentialID=GX0112348&
  numSignatures=1&
  hashes=MTIzNDU2Nzg5MHF3ZXJ0enVpb3Bhc2RmZ2hqa2zDtnl4&
  hashAlgorithmOID=2.16.840.1.101.3.4.2.1&state=12345678
Sample Response (Credential authorization)
HTTP/1.1 302 Found
Location: <OAuth2_redirect_uri>?code=HS9naJKWwp901hBcK348IUHiuH8374&
  state=12345678
Sample Request (Credential authorization with signature qualifier)
GET https://www.domain.org/oauth2/authorize?
  response_type=code&
  client_id=<OAuth2_client_id>&
  redirect_uri=<OAuth2_redirect_uri>&
  scope=credential&
  code_challenge=K2-ltc83acc4h0c9w6ESC_rEMTJ3bww-uCHaoeK1t8U&
  code_challenge_method=S256&
  signatureQualifier=eu_eidas_qes&
  numSignatures=1&
  hashes=MTIzNDU2Nzg5MHF3ZXJ0enVpb3Bhc2RmZ2hqa2zDtnl4&
  hashAlgorithmOID=2.16.840.1.101.3.4.2.1&state=12345678
Sample Response (Credential authorization with signature qualifier)
HTTP/1.1 302 Found
Location: <OAuth2_redirect_uri>?code=HS9naJKWwp901hBcK348IUHiuH8374&
  state=12345678
Sample Request (Credential authorization with documentDigests in authorization_details)
f
29

--- PAGE 30 ---
GET https://www.domain.org/oauth2/authorize?
  response_type=code&
  client_id=<OAuth2_client_id>&
  redirect_uri=<OAuth2_redirect_uri>&
  code_challenge=K2-ltc83acc4h0c9w6ESC_rEMTJ3bww-uCHaoeK1t8U&
  code_challenge_method=S256&
  state=12345678&
  
authorization_details=%5B%7B%22type%22%3A%22credential%22%2C%22signatureQualifier%22%3A%22eu_eidas_qes
%22%2C%22numSignatures%22%3A1%2C%22documentDigests%22%3A%5B%7B%22label%22%3A%22Example+Contract%22%2C%
22hash%22%3A%22sTOgwOm%2B474gFj0q0x1iSNspKqbcse4IeiqlDg%2FHWuI%3D%22%2C%22signed_props%22%3A+%5B%7B%22
commitment-type-
indication%22%3A+%221.2.840.113549.1.9.16.6.5%22%7D%5D%2C%22circumstantialData%22%3A+%22signingTime%3D
20241129170916%2B00%2700%27%22%7D%5D%2C%22hashAlgorithmOID%22%3A%222.16.840.1.101.3.4.2.1%22%7D%5D
Decoded authorization_details parameter
Sample Response (Credential authorization with documentDigests in authorization_details)
HTTP/1.1 302 Found
Location: <OAuth2_redirect_uri>?code=HS9naJKWwp901hBcK348IUHiuH8374&
  state=12345678
Sample Request (Credential authorization with signature qualifier via authorization_details)
GET https://www.domain.org/oauth2/authorize?
  response_type=code&
  client_id=<OAuth2_client_id>&
  redirect_uri=<OAuth2_redirect_uri>&
  code_challenge=K2-ltc83acc4h0c9w6ESC_rEMTJ3bww-uCHaoeK1t8U&
  code_challenge_method=S256&
  state=12345678&
  
authorization_details=%5B%7B%22type%22%3A%22credential%22%2C%22signatureQualifier%22%3A%22eu_eidas_qes
%22%2C%22numSignatures%22%3A2%2C%22documentDigests%22%3A%5B%7B%22hash%22%3A%22sTOgwOm%2B474gFj0q0x1iSN
spKqbcse4IeiqlDg%2FHWuI%3D%22%2C%22label%22%3A%22Example%20Contract%22%7D%2C%7B%22hash%22%3A%22HZQzZmM
AIWekfGH0%2FZKW1nsdt0xg3H6bZYztgsMTLw0%3D%22%2C%22label%22%3A%22Example%20Terms%20of%20Service%22%7D%5
D%2C%22hashAlgorithmOID%22%3A%222.16.840.1.101.3.4.2.1%22%7D%5D
Decoded authorization_details parameter
[
   {
      "type":"credential",
      "signatureQualifier":"eu_eidas_qes",
      "numSignatures":1,
      "documentDigests":[
         {
            "label":"Example Contract",
            "hash":"sTOgwOm+474gFj0q0x1iSNspKqbcse4IeiqlDg/HWuI=",
            "signed_props": [
              {
                "commitment-type-indication": "1.2.840.113549.1.9.16.6.5"
              }
            ],
            "circumstantialData": "signingTime=20241129170916+00'00'"
         }
      ],
      "hashAlgorithmOID":"2.16.840.1.101.3.4.2.1"
   }
]
f
30

--- PAGE 31 ---
Sample Response (Credential authorization with signature qualifier)
HTTP/1.1 302 Found
Location: <OAuth2_redirect_uri>?code=HS9naJKWwp901hBcK348IUHiuH8374&
  state=12345678
Error Response
HTTP/1.1 302 Found
Location: <OAuth2_redirect_uri>?error=invalid_request&
  error_description=Invalid%20Authorization%20Code&state=12345678
8.2.3 oauth2/pushed_authorize
This is the OAuth 2.0 pushed authorization endpoint as defined in RFC 9126 [28]. It allows clients to push the
payload of an OAuth 2.0 authorization request to the authorization server via a direct request and provides them
with a request URI that is used as reference to the data in a subsequent call to the authorization endpoint
(oauth2/authorize).
This mechanism protects the contents of the authorization request from modification and eavesdropping, allows
for practically arbitrary request sizes, and enables the authorization server to authenticate the signing application
in advance of the authorization process.
The application sends the parameters as defined in oauth2/authorize (except the request_uri parameter) to the
pushed authorization endpoint using an HTTP POST request. The application is required to authenticate towards
the authorization server using the mechanism used in the context of token requests (see oauth2/token). The
authorization server will respond with a request URI that the application sends to the authorization endpoint
along with its client_id instead of the authorization parameters.
Sample Pushed Authorization Request (Service authorization)
POST oauth2/pushed_authorize HTTP/1.1
Host: www.domain.org
Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded
Authorization: Basic czZCaGRSa3F0Mzo3RmpmcDBaQnIxS3REUmJuZlZkbUl3
response_type=code&
client_id=<OAuth2_client_id>&
redirect_uri=<OAuth2_redirect_uri>&
scope=service&
code_challenge=K2-ltc83acc4h0c9w6ESC_rEMTJ3bww-uCHaoeK1t8U&
code_challenge_method=S256&
lang=en-US&
state=12345678
Sample Pushed Authorization Request (Credential authorization with authorization details)
[
   {
      "type":"credential",
      "signatureQualifier":"eu_eidas_qes",
      "numSignatures":2,
      "documentDigests":[
         {
            "hash":"sTOgwOm+474gFj0q0x1iSNspKqbcse4IeiqlDg/HWuI=",
            "label":"Example Contract"
         },
         {
            "hash":"HZQzZmMAIWekfGH0/ZKW1nsdt0xg3H6bZYztgsMTLw0=",
            "label":"Example Terms of Service"
         }
      ],
      "hashAlgorithmOID":"2.16.840.1.101.3.4.2.1"
   }
]
f
31

--- PAGE 32 ---
POST oauth2/pushed_authorize HTTP/1.1
Host: www.domain.org
Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded
Authorization: Basic czZCaGRSa3F0Mzo3RmpmcDBaQnIxS3REUmJuZlZkbUl3
response_type=code&
client_id=<OAuth2_client_id>&
redirect_uri=<OAuth2_redirect_uri>&
code_challenge=K2-ltc83acc4h0c9w6ESC_rEMTJ3bww-uCHaoeK1t8U&
code_challenge_method=S256&
&state=12345678
&authorization_details=%5B%7B%22type%22:%22credential%22,%22signatureQualifier%22:%22eu_eidas_qes%22,%
22documentDigests%22:%5B%7B%22hash%22:%22sTOgwOm+474gFj0q0x1iSNspKqbcse4IeiqlDg/HWuI=%22,%22label%22:%
22Example%20Contract%22%7D,%7B%22hash%22:%22HZQzZmMAIWekfGH0/ZKW1nsdt0xg3H6bZYztgsMTLw0=%22,%22label%2
2:%22Example%20Terms%20of%20Service%22%7D%5D,%22hashAlgorithmOID%22:%222.16.840.1.101.3.4.2.1%22%7D%5D
Sample Pushed Authorization Response (Service authorization)
HTTP/1.1 201 Created
Cache-Control: no-cache, no-store
Content-Type: application/json
{
   "request_uri": "urn:example:bwc4JK-ESC0w8acc191e-Y1LTC2",
   "expires_in": 90
}
Sample authorization Request (with request_uri)
GET /authorize?client_id=<OAuth2_client_id>
       &request_uri=urn%3Aexample%3Abwc4JK-ESC0w8acc191e-Y1LTC2 HTTP/1.1
     Host: as.example.com
8.2.4 oauth2/token
Description
This is the OAuth token endpoint. It is used to obtain an OAuth 2.0 bearer access token from the authorization
server by passing either the client credentials pre-assigned by the authorization server to the signature
application, or the authorization code or refresh token returned by the authorization server after a successful
user authentication, along with the client ID and client secret in possession of the signature application. This
method SHALL be used only in case of an Authorization Code flow as described in Section 1.3.1 of RFC 6749 [11],
in case of Client Credential flow as described in Section 1.3.4 of RFC 6749 [11] or in case of Refresh Token flow as
described in Section 1.5 of RFC 6749 [11].
For confidential clients, implementations MAY utilize any of the client authentication methods defined in the
IANA “OAuth Token Endpoint Authentication Methods” registry established by IETF RFC 7591 [24].
This is a non-exhaustive list of options:
Passing a pre-issued client secret as a parameter in the request body as described in Section 2.3.1 of RFC
6749 [11].
Applying a pre-issued client secret within the HTTP Basic authentication scheme as described in Section
2.3.1 of RFC 6749 [11].
Passing a client assertion as defined in section 4.2 of RFC 7521 [14].
Using TLS Client authentication as defined in RFC 8705.
Note 24: oauth2/token does not specify a regular CSC API method, but rather the URI of the OAuth 2.0 Token
endpoint. Depending on the discovery method, this URL is either determined by adding oauth2/token to
the authorization server’s base URI or from the authorization server’s configuration.
f
32

--- PAGE 33 ---
Input
In order to maintain full compatibility with the OAuth 2.0 standard, the following parameters SHALL be passed in
the HTTP request entity-body using the “application/x-www-form-urlencoded” format with a character encoding
of UTF-8.
Note 25: The list of parameters is split between standard parameters that are defined by the OAuth 2.0
framework (see RFC 6749 [11] and RFC 7521 [14]) and parameters that are defined in this specification.
These parameters SHALL be combined in a single query string.
Input parameters defined in OAuth 2.0
Parameter Presence Value Description
grant_type REQUIREDString
authorization_code |
client_credentials |
refresh_token
The grant type, which depends on the type of OAuth 2.0 flow:
“authorization_code”: SHALL be used in case of Authorization
Code Grant.
“client_credentials”: SHALL be used in case of Client Credentials
Grant.
“refresh_token”: SHALL be used in case of Refresh Token flow.
code REQUIRED
Conditional
String The authorization code returned by the authorization server. It SHALL be
bound to the client identifier and the redirection URI. This SHALL be used
only when grant_type is “authorization_code”.
refresh_token REQUIRED
Conditional
String The long-lived refresh token returned from the previous session. This
SHALL be used only when the scope of the OAuth 2.0 authorization
request is “service” and grant_type is “refresh_token” to reauthenticate
the user according to the method described in Section 1.5 of RFC 6749
[11].
client_id REQUIREDString The client_id as defined in the Input parameter table in oauth2/authorize.
client_secret REQUIRED
Conditional
String This is the “client secret” previously assigned to the signature application
by the remote service. It SHALL be passed if the client is set up to
authenticate with a client secret and does not use an authorization
header. Note: According to RFC 6749 [11] section 2.3.1., including the
client credentials in the request-body is NOT RECOMMENDED and
SHOULD be limited to clients unable to directly utilize the HTTP Basic
authentication scheme.
client_assertion REQUIRED
Conditional
String The assertion being used to authenticate the client. Specific serialization
of the assertion is defined by profile documents.
It SHALL be passed if the client is set up for authentication with client
assertions.
client_assertion_typeREQUIRED
Conditional
String The format of the assertion as defined by the authorization server. The
value will be an absolute URI.
It SHALL be passed if a client assertion is used.
redirect_uri REQUIRED
Conditional
String The URL where the user was redirected after the authorization process
completed. It is used to validate that it matches the original value
previously passed to the authorization server. This SHALL be used only if
the redirect_uri parameter was included in the authorization request, and
their values SHALL be identical.
authorization_detailsREQUIRED
Conditional
String MUST be present if the authorization_details parameter was used in
the authorization request. It contains the authorization details as
approved during the authorization process. In case a signature qualifier
was used in the request and resolved for a credential ID in the course of
the authorization process, this object will contain the credential ID.
Input parameters defined in this specification
Parameter Presence Value Description
clientDataOPTIONALStringThe clientData as defined in the Input parameter table in oauth2/authorize.
f
33

--- PAGE 34 ---
Output
This method returns the following values using the “application/json” format:
Output parameters defined in OAuth 2.0
Attribute Presence Value Description
access_tokenREQUIREDStringThe short-lived access token to be used depending on the scope of the OAuth 2.0 authorization
request.
This access token as the value of the “Authorization: Bearer” in the HTTP header of the subsequent
API requests within the same session.
A signing application MAY also pass an access tokens with scope “credential” as the value of the SAD
parameter when invoking the signatures/signHash or signatures/signDoc methods, as defined in
signatures/signHash.
refresh_tokenOPTIONALStringThe long-lived refresh token used to re-authenticate the user on the subsequent session based on
the method described in Section 1.5 of RFC 6749 [11].
The presence of this parameter is controlled by the user and is allowed only when the scope of the
OAuth 2.0 authorization request is “service”.
In case grant_type is “refresh_token” the authorization server MAY issue a new refresh token, in
which case the client SHALL discard the old refresh token and replace it with the new refresh token.
token_typeREQUIREDStringAccess token type as defined in RFC 6749 [11]. Default is “Bearer”, other token types are defined in
the “OAuth Access Token Types” established by RFC 6749 [11].
expires_in OPTIONALIntegerThe lifetime in seconds of the service access token. If omitted, the default expiration time is 3600
sec. (1 hour).
Note 26: The lifetime of the refresh token is determined by the RSSP.
Output parameters defined in this specification
Attribute Presence ValueDescription
credentialIDOPTIONALStringThe identifier associated to the credential authorized in the corresponding authorization request. This
response parameter MAY be present in case the scope credential is used in the authorization request
along with the parameter “signatureQualifier” and the authorization server determined a credentialID
in the authorization process to be used in subsequent signature operations.
f
34

--- PAGE 35 ---
Error Case Status Code Error Error Description
Missing “client_id” parameter 400
(bad request)
invalid_requestMissing parameter client_id
Missing “grant_type” parameter 400
(bad request)
invalid_requestMissing parameter grant_type
Invalid parameter “grant_type” 400
(bad request)
invalid_requestInvalid parameter grant_type
Missing “code” parameter 400
(bad request)
invalid_requestMissing parameter code
Missing “refresh_token” parameter 400
(bad request)
invalid_requestMissing parameter refresh_token
Invalid “client_id” parameter 400
(bad request)
invalid_requestInvalid parameter client_id
Invalid “code” parameter 400
(bad request)
invalid_grantInvalid parameter code
The “redirect_uri” parameter does not match
the redirection URI in the authorization request
400
(bad request)
invalid_grantredirect_uri parameter does not match
redirect_uri parameter of authorization
request
Invalid “refresh_token” parameter 400
(bad request)
invalid_grantInvalid parameter refresh_token
Refresh token expired 400
(bad request)
invalid_grantRefresh token expired
Authorization code invalid or expired 400
(bad request)
invalid_grantAuthorization code is invalid or expired
Missing “client_secret” parameter and no
authorization header provided
400 (bad request) | 401
(unauthorized)
invalid_requestClient authorization required
Invalid “client_secret” parameter 400
(bad request)
invalid_requestInvalid parameter client_secret
Sample Request (Authorization code flow)
POST oauth2/token HTTP/1.1
Host: www.domain.org
Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded
grant_type=authorization_code&
code=FhkXf9P269L8g&
client_id=<OAuth2_client_id>&
client_secret=<OAuth2_client_secret>&
redirect_uri=<OAuth2_redirect_uri>
cURL Example
curl -i -X POST
     -H "Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded"
     -d 'grant_type=authorization_code&
         code=FhkXf9P269L8g&
         client_id=<OAuth2_client_id>&
         client_secret=<OAuth2_client_secret>&
         redirect_uri=<OAuth2_redirect_uri>'
    https://www.domain.org/oauth2/token
Sample Response (for service scope)
f
35

--- PAGE 36 ---
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-Type: application/json;charset=UTF-8
{
   "access_token": "4/CKN69L8gdSYp5_pwH3XlFQZ3ndFhkXf9P2_TiHRG-bA",
   "refresh_token": "_TiHRG-bAH3XlFQZ3ndFhkXf9P24/CKN69L8gdSYp5_pw",
   "token_type": "Bearer",
   "expires_in": 3600
}
Sample Response (for credential scope)
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-Type: application/json;charset=UTF-8
{
   "access_token":
   "3XlFQZ3ndFhkXf9P24/CKN69L8gdSYp5H3XlFQZ3ndFhkXf9P2",
   "token_type": "Bearer",
   "expires_in": 300
}
Sample Response (for credential scope with signature qualifier and AS selected credential)
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-Type: application/json;charset=UTF-8
{
   "access_token":
   "3XlFQZ3ndFhkXf9P24/CKN69L8gdSYp5H3XlFQZ3ndFhkXf9P2",
   "token_type": "Bearer",
   "expires_in": 300,
   "credentialID": "GX0112348"
}
Sample Response (for credential authorization details with signature qualifier and AS selected credential)
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-Type: application/json;charset=UTF-8
{
   "access_token":"3XlFQZ3ndFhkXf9P24/CKN69L8gdSYp5H3XlFQZ3ndFhkXf9P2",
   "token_type":"Bearer",
   "expires_in":300,
   "authorization_details":[
      {
         "type":"credential",
         "credentialID":"GX0112348",
         "documentDigests":[
            {
               "hash":"sTOgwOm+474gFj0q0x1iSNspKqbcse4IeiqlDg/HWuI=",
               "label":"Example Contract"
            },
            {
               "hash":"HZQzZmMAIWekfGH0/ZKW1nsdt0xg3H6bZYztgsMTLw0=",
               "label":"Example Terms of Service"
            }
         ],
         "hashAlgorithmOID":"2.16.840.1.101.3.4.2.1"
      }
   ]
}
Sample Request (Refresh token flow)
POST oauth2/token HTTP/1.1
Host: www.domain.org
Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded
grant_type=refresh_token&
refreshToken=_TiHRG-bA+H3XlFQZ3ndFhkXf9P24%2FCKN69L8gdSYp5_pw&
client_id=<OAuth2_client_id>&
client_secret=<OAuth2_client_secret>&
redirect_uri=<OAuth2_redirect_uri>
cURL Example
f
36

--- PAGE 37 ---
curl -i -X POST
     -H "Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded"
     -d 'grant_type=refresh_token&
         refreshToken=_TiHRG-bA+H3XlFQZ3ndFhkXf9P24%2FCKN69L8gdSYp5_pw&
         client_id=<OAuth2_client_id>&
         client_secret=<OAuth2_client_secret>&
         redirect_uri=<OAuth2_redirect_uri>'
     https://www.domain.org/oauth2/token
Sample Response
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-Type: application/json;charset=UTF-8
{
   "access_token": "K7x-0Lj7Wwdt4pwH3XlFQZ3ndFhkXf9P2_TiHRQaxZ9kJ0",
   "token_type": "Bearer",
   "expires_in": 3600
}
8.2.5 oauth2/revoke
Description
Revoke an access token or refresh token that was obtained from the authorization server, as described in RFC
7009 [13]. This method may be used to enforce the security of the remote service. When the signature
application needs to terminate a session, it is RECOMMENDED to invoke this method to prevent further access by
reusing the token.
This method allows the signature application to invalidate its tokens according to the following approach:
If the token passed to the request is a refresh_token, then the authorization server SHALL invalidate the
refresh token, and it SHOULD also invalidate all access tokens based on the same authorization grant.
If the token passed to the request is an access_token, then the authorization server SHALL invalidate the
access token, and it SHALL NOT revoke any existing refresh token based on the same authorization grant.
The invalidation of the token takes place immediately, and the token cannot be used again after its revocation. As
a token issued in the process of credential authorization is automatically invalidated as soon as its usage limit is
reached, a client does not have to revoke the corresponding token after use. However, a provider SHOULD
support the revocation of such a token before reaching the usage limit.
A confidential client SHALL authenticate with the authorization server using its client authentication method.
Note 27: oauth2/revoke does not specify a regular CSC API method, but rather the URI of the OAuth 2.0 Token
endpoint. Depending on the discovery method, this URL is either determined by adding oauth/revoke to
the authorization server’s base URI or from the authorization server’s configuration.
8.2.5.1 Input
In order to maintain full compatibility with the OAuth 2.0 standard, the following parameters SHALL be passed in
the HTTP request entity-body with the authorization endpoint URI using the “application/x-www-form-
urlencoded” format with a character encoding of UTF-8.
Note 28: The list of parameters is split between standard parameters that are defined by the OAuth 2.0
framework (see RFC 6749 [11] and RFC 7521 [14]) and parameters that are defined in this specification.
These parameters SHALL be combined in a single query string.
Input parameters defined in OAuth 2.0
f
37

--- PAGE 38 ---
Parameter Presence Value Description
token REQUIREDString The token that the signature application wants to get revoked.
token_type_hint OPTIONALString
access_token |
refresh_token
Specifies an optional hint about the type of the token submitted for revocation.
If the parameter is omitted, the authorization server SHOULD try to identify
the token across all the available tokens.
client_id REQUIRED
Conditional
String The client_id as defined in the Input parameter table in oauth2/authorize. It
SHALL be passed if no authorization header is used.
client_secret REQUIRED
Conditional
String The client_secret as defined in the Input parameter table in oauth2/token.
client_assertion REQUIRED
Conditional
String The client_assertion as defined in the Input parameter table in oauth2/token.
client_assertion_typeREQUIRED
Conditional
String The client_assertion_type as defined in the Input parameter table in
oauth2/token.
Input parameters defined in this specification
Parameter Presence Value Description
clientDataOPTIONALStringThe clientData as defined in the Input parameter table in oauth2/authorize.
Output
This method has no output values and the response returns “No Content” status.
Error Case Status Code Error Error Description
Missing “token” parameter400
(bad request)
invalid_request Missing parameter token
“token_hint” parameter
present, not equal to
“access_token” nor
“refresh_token”
400
(bad request)
invalid_request Invalid parameter token_type_hint
Invalid access_token or
refresh_token
400
(bad request)
invalid_request Invalid string parameter token
Unsupported token type 400
(bad request)
unsupported_token_typeThe authorization server does not support the
revocation of the presented token type. That is, the
client tried to revoke an access token on a server not
supporting this feature.
Missing “client_id” parameter
and no authorization header
provided
400 (bad request) |
401 (unauthorized)
invalid_request Missing parameter client_id
Invalid “client_id” parameter400
(bad request)
invalid_request Invalid parameter client_id
Missing “client_secret”
parameter and no
authorization header provided
400 (bad request) |
401 (unauthorized)
invalid_request Client authorization required
Invalid “client_secret”
parameter
400
(bad request)
invalid_request Invalid parameter client_secret
Invalid Authorization header401 (unauthorized)invalid_client Invalid authorization header
Sample Request
f
38

--- PAGE 39 ---
POST /oauth2/revoke HTTP/1.1
Host: www.domain.org
Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded
token=_TiHRG-bA-H3XlFQZ3ndFhkXf9P24/CKN69L8gdSYp5_pw&
token_type_hint=refresh_token&
client_id=<OAuth2_client_id>&
client_secret=<OAuth2_client_secret>&
clientData=12345678
cURL Example
curl -i -X POST
     -H "Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded"
     -d 'token=_TiHRG-bA-H3XlFQZ3ndFhkXf9P24/CKN69L8gdSYp5_pw&
         token_type_hint=refresh_token&
         client_id=<OAuth2_client_id>&
         client_secret=<OAuth2_client_secret>&
         clientData=12345678'
     https://www.domain.org/oauth2/revoke
Sample Response
HTTP/1.1 204 No Content
8.3 Authentication and authorization for electronic seals
8.3.1 Introduction
The eIDAS regulation (Regulation (EU) No 910/2014 [i.1]) defines two basic concepts: an electronic signature,
created by a natural person used to sign the content of a document, and an electronic seal based on a certificate
of a legal person used to prove the origin and integrity of the document. From a mere technical point of view,
both electronic signatures and electronic seals are digital signatures. However, the usage of the CSC API in order
to create an electronic signature or an electronic seal can be different depending on the above-cited legal
context. The present section discusses the usage of the CSC API for creating electronic seals, which in the context
of the present document are digital signatures created by using a certificate issued to a legal person. This ensures
the integrity and origin of the document, without necessarily committing to the content.
Note 29: This definition is not limited to the legal definition of electronic seals in Regulation (EU) No 910/2014
[i.1].
In many cases, electronic seals are created in automated processes and often a large number of documents are
to be sealed in one session. In the present document, there are two different possible authorizations. The first
one is the authorization to get access to the API, and the second one is the authorization to use the signing
credential for the seal/signature creation. The following section describe how these authorizations can be done
with the purpose of creating an electronic seal.
8.3.2 Service authorization and authentication for electronic seals
Several methods allow access to the CSC API without the need for regular human interaction, which would not
be very practical in the case of sealing a large number of documents.
8.3.2.1 Login / password
HTTP basic or HTTP digest authentication can be used to provide access to the API. The login and password MAY
be linked to the signature application or to the certificate owner.
f
39

--- PAGE 40 ---
8.3.2.2 OAuth with client credentials grant
The usage of OAuth 2.0 with client credential grant allows granting access to the signing application. It does not
convey any user specific identifier. This authenticates the client, any user specific information is indicated within
the respective CSC API call or provided implicitly or separately.
8.3.2.3 Mutual TLS
The signing server can be configured to use TLS connections, requiring clients that attempt to connect to get
authenticated. A client SHALL use a client certificate in order to authenticate. The client certificate SHALL contain
information allowing the signing server to authenticate the client application/user. The signing server MAY be
configured to accept TLS connections only from a limited group of allowed clients.
An example can just be a scenario where the usage of the sealing credentials is limited only to
successfully authenticated TLS connections using client certificates authentication connections.
This method does not create any token. In an additional use case, the remote signing service
provider has a specific end point (outside the CSC specification) which can be accessed via TLS
authentication + API key + secret which creates an Access Token. And this access token is used
later on to access the API. In case of seals, no extra authorization is used to access the private key.
Used with short-lived credentials.
Note 30: By defining an empty set of authentication object types, the RSSP can decide to not need any more
actions.
In addition to the mutual TLS, a token can be created based on login / password + OTP by a non
CSC end point, and is then used for signing together with a PIN. This can be used with long-term
certificates
8.3.3 Credential authorization for electronic seals
The credential authorization allows the usage of a specific key. There are three possible strategies, to avoid
human interaction for each signature.
The first is the usage of an authorization means that can be fully automized, for example the usage of a
PIN.
It is also possible to not require any additional actions, if the access token is already sufficient.
The third one, consists in creating a SAD for a high but limited number of signatures. Since the creation of
the SAD is an operation which is not repeated very often, it can be created in a non-fully automated
process. This allows a more complex authorization, and to be more precise in what this authorization
includes.
9 Creating a remote signature
Remote signature services allow generating digital signatures remotely by means of an RSCD operated as a
service. An RSSP is an organization that manages the RSCD on behalf of the signers.
In general, each time a remote signature is required, a strong authentication mechanism SHOULD be invoked.
Strong authentication requiring the user to authorize to the signature application multiple times in a rapid
sequence using authorization mechanisms like OTP can be cumbersome. In order to improve the signer’s
f
40

--- PAGE 41 ---
experience, the strong authentication MAY be allowed to occur only once per signing session (for example with a
single OTP) covering multiple signatures.
The current specification supports the following three use cases:
1. The remote signature of a single hash;
2. The remote signature of multiple hashes passed in a single signature operation;
3. The remote signature of multiple hashes passed across multiple signature operations occurring within a
single signing session.
A RSSP SHALL support at least case 1, with credentials authorization occurring every time a signature is created.
The RSSP decides whether to support multi-signature transactions (use cases 2 and 3) or not. In some cases,
regulatory or security requirements may forbid multi-signature transactions. The multisign output value of the
credentials/info method, as defined in credentials/info, provides information if multi-signature transactions are
supported by a specific credential or not.
A multi-signature transaction can be created by invoking the signatures/signHash method, as defined in
signatures/signHash, and submitting multiple hash values in one run (use case 2, suitable for “batch signing” of
multiple documents) or by invoking signatures/signHash multiple times (use case 3, suitable for creating multiple
signatures from a single user in a PDF document). In both cases, the authorization mechanism adopted by the
signature application SHALL explicitly specify the total number of signatures to be authorized and the remote
signing service SHALL prevent signature applications from creating more signatures than authorized.
See Interaction among elements and components to understand the workflows supported in this specification
and the sequence of API calls to be invoked to create the supported types of remote signatures.
10 Error handling
Errors are returned by the remote service using standard HTTP status code syntax. Additional information is
included in the body of the response from an API request using JSON.
The HTTP protocol defines a list of standard status codes that are referenced in this specification to help the
signature application deal with these responses accordingly. For the events described in Table 2, the remote
service SHALL support the corresponding HTTP status codes.
Table 2 – Supported HTTP Status Codes
Standard Status Code Description
200 OK Response to a successful API method request.
204 No ContentResponse to a successful API method request in case no content is returned.
302 Found Response used to redirect the user to an OAuth 2.0 authorization endpoint.
400 Bad RequestReturned due to unsupported, invalid or missing required parameters.
401 UnauthorizedReturned when a bad or expired authorization token is used.
429 Too Many
Requests
Returned when a request is rejected due to rate limiting.
500 Internal Server
Error
Returned when the server encounters an unexpected condition.
501 Not ImplementedReturned when an unimplemented method is requested.
503 Service
Unavailable
Returned when the server is currently unable to handle the request due to temporary overloading or
maintenance conditions.
f
41

--- PAGE 42 ---
Status codes 429 and 50x are applicable to the remote service overall and are not specific to any API methods.
For this reason, they are not mentioned in the error tables for each method specifically.
10.1 Error messages
Just as an HTML error page shows a useful error message to a visitor, the remote service implementing the API
described in this specification SHALL provide a useful error message in case something goes wrong. When an
error is detected, the remote service SHALL return the corresponding HTTP status code and SHALL return the
information on the error in the body of the HTTP response using the “application/json” media type, as defined by
RFC 4627 [5]. The parameters are serialized into a JSON structure by adding each parameter at the highest
structure level. Parameter names and string values are included as JSON strings as shown in the following
example:
HTTP/1.1 400 Bad Request
Date: Mon, 03 Dec 2018 12:00:00 GMT
Content-Type: application/json;charset=utf-8
Content-Length: ...
{
   "error": "invalid_request",
   "error_description": "The access token is not valid"
}
The error_description parameter is OPTIONAL but highly RECOMMENDED to provide a human-readable text
string containing additional information to assist the user in understanding the error that occurred.
The remote service can also define custom error messages by using messages that are not defined in this
specification.
The following table contains definitions for errors that are common to more than one API methods. Therefore,
they’re presented only once in this section instead of being repeated for all API methods.
Table 3 – Predefined common Error Messages
Error Error Description
invalid_request The request is missing a required parameter, includes an invalid parameter value, includes a parameter
more than once, or is otherwise malformed.
unauthorized_client The client is not authorized to use this method.
access_denied The user, authorization server or remote service denied the request.
unsupported_response_typeThe authorization server does not support obtaining an authorization code using this method.
invalid_scope The requested scope is invalid, unknown, or malformed.
server_error The authorization server encountered an unexpected condition that prevented it from fulfilling the
request.
temporarily_unavailable The authorization server is currently unable to handle the request due to a temporary overloading or
maintenance of the server.
expired_token The access or refresh token is expired or has been revoked.
invalid_token The token provided is not a valid OAuth access or refresh token.
11 The remote service APIs
In order to simplify the navigation of this specification, the following table summarizes all the API methods
defined in the present specification. The info method, as defined in info, SHALL be implemented. All other
methods are OPTIONAL.
Table 4 – API methods summary
f
42

--- PAGE 43 ---
API Method Description
info Returns information on the remote service and the list of API methods it has implemented.
auth/login Authorize the remote service with HTTP Basic or Digest authentication.
auth/revoke Revoke the service access token or refresh token.
credentials/list Returns the list of credentials associated to a user.
credentials/info Returns information on a signing credential, its associated certificate and a description of the supported
authorization mechanism.
credentials/authorize Authorize the access to the credential for signing.
credentials/extendTransactionExtend the validity of a multi-signature transaction.
credentials/sendOTP Start the online OTP mechanism associated to a credential.
signatures/signHash Calculate a raw digital signature from one or more hash values.
signatures/signDoc Creates one or more AdES signatures for documents or document digests.
signatures/timestamp Return a time stamp token for the input hash value.
oauth2/authorize* Initiate an OAuth 2.0 authorization flow.
oauth2/token* Obtain an OAuth 2.0 access token or refresh token.
oauth2/revoke* Revoke an OAuth 2.0 access token or refresh token.
Note 31: Although oauth2/authorize , oauth2/token, oauth2/pushed_authorize, and oauth2/revoke, as defined
in OAuth 2.0 Authorization, do not specify regular CSC API methods but rather endpoints managed by the
OAuth 2.0 authorization server, they’re listed in Table 4 to provide a complete overview of the endpoints
that can be supported by a remote service conforming to this specification.
11.1 info
Description
Returns information about the remote service and the list of the API methods it supports. This method SHALL be
implemented by any remote service conforming to this specification.
Input
This method allows the following parameters:
ParameterPresence ValueDescription
lang OPTIONALStringRequest a preferred language of the response to the remote service, specified according to RFC 5646
[9].
If present, the remote service SHALL provide language-specif ic responses using the specified language.
If the specified language is not supported then it SHALL provide these responses in the language as
specified in the lang output parameter.
Output
This method returns the following values using the “application/json” format:
f
43

--- PAGE 44 ---
Attribute Presence Value Description
specs REQUIREDString The version of this specification implemented by the provider. The format
of the string is Major.Minor.x.y , where Major is a number equivalent to
the API version (e.g. 2 for API v2) and Minor is a number identifying the
version update, while x and y are subversion numbers.
The value corresponding to this specification is “2.2.0.0”.
name REQUIREDString The commercial name of the remote service. The maximum size of the
string is 255 characters.
logo REQUIREDString The URI of the image file containing the logo of the remote service which
SHALL be published online. The image SHALL be in either JPEG or PNG
format and not larger than 256x256 pixels.
region REQUIREDString The ISO 3166-1 [22] Alpha-2 code of the Country where the remote
service provider is established (e.g. ES for Spain).
lang REQUIREDString The language used in the responses, specified according to RFC 5646 [9].
description REQUIREDString A free form description of the remote service in the lang language. The
maximum size of the string is 255 characters.
authType REQUIREDArray of StringOne or more values corresponding to the service authorization
mechanisms supported by the remote service to authorize the access to
the API:
“external”: in case the authorization is managed externally
(e.g. using a VPN or a private LAN).
“TLS”: in case the authorization is provided by means of TLS client
certificate authentication.
“basic”: in case of HTTP Basic Authentication.
“digest”: in case of HTTP Digest Authentication.
“oauth2code”: in case of OAuth 2.0 with authorization code flow.
“oauth2client”: in case of OAuth 2.0 with client credentials flow.
oauth2Servers REQUIRED
Conditional
Array of
OAuth2Server
List of OAuth 2.0 authorization servers supported by the remote service
for service authorization and/or credential authorization.
If
the authType parameter contains “oauth2code” or “oauth2client”
or
the remote service supports the value “oauth2code” for the
auth/mode parameter returned by credentials/info (as specified
in credentials/info),
exactly one of the parameters “oauth2”, “oauth2Issuer”, or
“oauth2Servers” SHALL be present.
oauth2 REQUIRED
Conditional
String The base URI of the OAuth 2.0 authorization server endpoint supported
by the remote service for service authorization and/or credential
authorization.
If
the authType parameter contains “oauth2code” or “oauth2client”
or
the remote service supports the value “oauth2code” for the
auth/mode parameter returned by credentials/info (as specified
in credentials/info),
exactly one of the parameters “oauth2”, “oauth2Issuer”, or
“oauth2Servers” SHALL be present.
This URI SHALL be combined with the path components described in
OAuth 2.0 Authorization in order to build the actual endpoint URLs.
oauth2Issuer REQUIRED
Conditional
String The issuer URL of the OAuth 2.0 authorization server as defined in IETF
RFC 8414 [23] supported by the remote service for service authorization
and/or credential authorization.
If
the authType parameter contains “oauth2code” or “oauth2client”
or
the remote service supports the value “oauth2code” for the
auth/mode parameter returned by credentials/info (as specified
f
44

--- PAGE 45 ---
Attribute Presence Value Description
in credentials/info),
exactly one of the parameters “oauth2”, “oauth2Issuer”, or
“oauth2Servers” SHALL be present.
The OAuth endpoint URLs are obtained from the OAuth Server metadata
as described in IETF RFC 8414 [23].
supportsRar OPTIONALBoolean If this parameter is present and either “oauth2” or “oauth2issuer” is
present, this parameters SHALL be “true” if the authorization server
supports “authorization_details” as documented in oauth2/authorize and
“false” if it does not. If this parameter is not present and either “oauth2”
or “oauth2issuer” is present, the default value is “false”. This parameter
SHALL NOT be present if “oauth2Servers” is present.
supportedHashTypes REQUIREDArray of StringList of values supported for hashType as defined in oauth2/authorize.
Details on the hashType required to authorize different combinations of
signing method, parameters, and assurance level SHOULD be specified in
the signature creation policy.
asynchronousOperationModeOPTIONALBoolean This parameter shall be “true” if the remote signing server supports also
asynchronous signature mechanism. The default value is “false”. An
omitted parameter or the value “false” indicates that the remote signing
server manages signature requests only in synchronous operation mode.
methods REQUIREDArray of StringThe list of names of all the API methods described in this specification
that are implemented and supported by the remote service.
validationInfo OPTIONALBoolean This parameter SHALL be “true” if the remote signing server supports the
“validationInfo” response parameter of the method signatures/signDoc
in not mandatory cases. An omitted parameter or the value “false”
indicates that the remote signing server does not support
“validationInfo” in those cases.
signAlgorithms REQUIREDJSON Object Object including one or more signature algorithms supported by the
RSSP.
documentTypes REQUIRED
Conditional
Array of StringA list of document types supported by signatures/signDoc. SHALL be
present if signatures/signDoc is supported and the RSSP supports input
formats other than sod.
signature_formats REQUIREDJSON Object Object including one or more signature formats supported by the RSSP.
conformance_levels REQUIREDArray of StringThe list of names of all signature conformance levels supported by the
RSSP as defined in the Input parameter table in signatures/signDoc. If the
RSSP does not support signatures/signDoc, the array SHOULD be empty.
An OAuth2Server object is a JSON object composed of the following attributes:
Parameter Presence Value Description
label OPTIONALString Human-readable description of the authorization server.
baseUri REQUIRED
Conditional
String See definition of oauth2 above (Output). Either baseUri or issuerIdentifier SHALL be
present. baseUri and issuerIdentifier MUST NOT both be present.
issuerIdentifierREQUIRED
Conditional
String See definition of oauth2Issuer above (Output). Either baseUri or issuerIdentifier SHALL be
present. baseUri and issuerIdentifier MUST NOT both be present.
authTypeREQUIREDArray of
String
One or more values corresponding to the service authorization mechanisms supported by
the remote service to authorize the access to the API:
“oauth2code”: in case of OAuth 2.0 with authorization code flow.
“oauth2client”: in case of OAuth 2.0 with client credentials flow.
supportsRarOPTIONALBoolean If present, this parameters SHALL be “true” if the authorization server supports
“authorization_details” as documented in oauth2/authorize and “false” if it does not. The
default value is “false”.
The signAlgorithms is a JSON Object composed of the following parameters:
algos
f
45

--- PAGE 46 ---
algoParams
specified according to the following table.
Parameter Presence Value Description
algosREQUIREDArray of
String
The list of signature algorithms supported by the RSSP as defined in the Input parameter table in
signatures/signHash. The supported signature algorithms SHOULD follow the recommendations of
ETSI TS 119 312 [21] and SHALL be expressed as defined in Expressing algorithms clause.
algoParamsREQUIRED
Conditional
Array of
String
The list of eventual signature parameters as defined in the Input parameter table in
signatures/signHash.
The signature_formats is a JSON Object composed by the following parameters:
formats
envelope_properties
allowMix
specified according to the following table.
Parameter Presence Value Description
formats REQUIREDArray of
String
The list of signature formats supported by the RSSP as defined in the Input parameter
table in signatures/signDoc. If the RSSP does not support signatures/signDoc, the array
SHOULD be empty.
envelope_propertiesREQUIRED
Conditional
Array of
Array of
String
The list of the properties concerning the signed envelope, whose possible values depend
on the value of the formats parameter entries, as defined in the Input parameter table in
signatures/signDoc. The number of arrays included in the envelope_properties array
SHALL equal the number of entries in the formats array. The values included in the array
at position i of the envelope_properties array SHALL refer to the signature format value
included at position i of the formats array. An empty array at the position i of the
envelope_properties array indicates that the RSSP supports the default signed envelope
property for the signature format specified at the position i of the formats array, as
defined in the Input parameter table in signatures/signDoc.
allowMix OPTIONALbooleanIf true, signatures/signDoc SHALL support multiple combinations of format and envelope
types in a single call. If false, signatures/signDoc MAY fail if a call includes more than one
format and envelope type. Default is “false”.
Note 32: info is a mandatory API method, so it MAY be excluded from the list of API method names returned by
the methods parameter.
The endpoints oauth2/authorize , oauth2/token, oauth2/pushed_authorize and oauth2/revoke, as
defined in OAuth 2.0 Authorization, do not specify regular API methods but rather endpoints managed by
the OAuth 2.0 authorization server, therefore they MAY be excluded from the list of API method names
returned by the methods parameter.
Examples
Sample Request
POST /csc/v2/info HTTP/1.1
Host: service.domain.org
Content-Type: application/json
{}
cURL Example
curl -i -X POST
     -H "Content-Type: application/json"
     -d '{}'
     https://service.domain.org/csc/v2/info
f
46

--- PAGE 47 ---
Sample Response
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-Type: application/json;charset=UTF-8
{
   "specs": "2.2.0.0",
   "name": "ACME Trust Services",
   "logo": "https://service.domain.org/images/logo.png",
   "region": "IT",
   "lang": "en-US",
   "description": "An efficient remote signature service",
   "authType": ["basic", "oauth2code"],
   "oauth2": "https://www.domain.org/",
   "methods": ["auth/login", "auth/revoke", "credentials/list",
      "credentials/info", "credentials/authorize",
      "credentials/sendOTP",
      "signatures/signHash", "signatures/signDoc"],
   "signAlgorithms":
   {
    "algos": ["1.2.840.10045.4.3.2", "1.2.840.113549.1.1.1", "1.2.840.113549.1.1.10"]
   },
   "documentTypes": [ "sod", "sfd" ],
   "signature_formats":
   {
    "formats": ["C", "X", "P"],
    "envelope_properties": [["Detached", "Attached", "Parallel"],
                            ["Enveloped", "Enveloping", "Detached"],
                            ["Certification", "Revision"]],
    "allowMix": true
   },
   "conformance_levels": ["AdES-B-B", "AdES-B-T"]
}
11.2 auth/login
Description
Obtain an access token for service authorization from the remote service using HTTP Basic Authentication or
HTTP Digest authentication, as defined in RFC 7235 [2], using the userID and password assigned to the user.
These authentication factors SHALL be passed directly in the HTTP header as an authorization grant to obtain a
service access token to use for the subsequent API requests within the same session.
The OPTIONAL rememberMe parameter can be used, under the control of the user, in order to extend a
successful authentication for subsequent sessions and to avoid the user to authenticate again within a
predefined period of time. In this case, a refresh token will be obtained, which can be used in the refresh_token
parameter in subsequent calls as an alternative to passing userID and password again for obtaining a new access
token.
Note 33: The RECOMMENDED mechanism for service authorization is OAuth 2.0 (see OAuth 2.0 Authorization).
HTTP Basic Authentication is an unsafe mechanism, and therefore it SHOULD NOT be used, especially by
signature application running as a service. It should only be used when there is a high degree of trust
between the user and the signature application and when other authorization types like OAuth 2.0 are not
available. This method may also be deprecated in future releases of this specification.
Input
The userID and password strings SHALL be encoded as defined in RFC 7235 [2] and provided in the HTTP
Authorization header. If available, a refresh token MAY be alternatively used to re-authenticate the user after an
access token has expired. This method allows the following parameters:
f
47

--- PAGE 48 ---
Parameter Presence Value Description
refresh_tokenREQUIRED
Conditional
StringThe long-lived refresh token returned from a previous call to this method with HTTP Basic
Authentication. This MAY be used as an alternative to the Authorization header to
reauthenticate the user according to the method described in RFC 6749 [11] par. 1.5. In such
case the encoded userId and password SHALL not be provided in the HTTP Authorization
header.
NOTE: This refresh token MAY not be compatible with refresh tokens obtained by means of
OAuth 2.0 authorization (see oauth2/token in oauth2/token).
rememberMeOPTIONALBooleanA boolean value typically corresponding to an option that the user may activate during the
authentication phase to “stay signed in” and maintain a valid authentication across multiple
sessions:
“true”: if the remote service supports user reauthentication, a refresh_token will be
returned and the signature application may use it on a subsequent call to this method
instead of passing an Authorization header.
“false”: a refresh_token will not be returned.
If the parameter is omitted, it will default to “false”.
This mechanism is based on the method described in RFC 6749 [11] section 1.5.
clientDataOPTIONALStringThe clientData as defined in the Input parameter table in oauth2/authorize.
Output
This method returns the following values using the “application/json” format:
Attribute Presence Value Description
access_tokenREQUIREDStringThe short-lived service access token used to authenticate the subsequent API requests within
the same session.
This token SHALL be used as the value of the “Authorization: Bearer” in the HTTP header of the
API requests. When receiving an API call with an expired token, the remote service SHALL
return an error and require a new auth/login request.
refresh_tokenOPTIONAL
Conditional
StringThe long-lived refresh token used to re-authenticate the user on the subsequent session. The
value is returned if the rememberMe parameter in the request is “true” and the remote
service supports user reauthentication.
This mechanism is based on the method described in RFC 6749 [11] par. 1.5.
NOTE: This refresh_token MAY not be compatible with refresh tokens obtained by means of
OAuth 2.0 authorization.
expires_in OPTIONALIntegerThe lifetime in seconds of the service access token. If omitted, the default expiration time is
3600 (1 hour).
Note 34: Access tokens and refresh tokens are credentials used to access protected resources. These tokens are
strings representing a service authorization issued to the client. The strings MAY represent specific
authorization criteria, but they SHOULD be opaque to the client.
Note 35: An existing refresh token MAY be automatically revoked if the user to whom it was issued performs a
new service authorization with the rememberMe parameter set to “true”. It is up to the remote service to
support a single or multiple refresh tokens per user.
Note 36: The lifetime of the refresh_token is determined by the RSSP.
f
48

--- PAGE 49 ---
Error Case Status Code Error Error Description
The authorization header does not match the basic HTTP
authentication pattern (“Basic [base64]”) - if refresh token is not
present
401
(unauthorized)
invalid_requestMalformed authentication
parameter.
Decoded credentials are not in the form “username:password” 400
(bad request)
invalid_requestMalformed username-
password.
Invalid refresh_token parameter format 400
(bad request)
invalid_requestInvalid string parameter:
refresh_token
Invalid refresh_token value 400
(bad request)
invalid_requestInvalid refresh_token
Authentication error – login failed 400
(bad request)
authentication_errorAn error occurred during
authentication process
Examples
Sample Request
POST /csc/v2/auth/login HTTP/1.1
Host: service.domain.org
Authorization: Basic Y2xpZW50X2lkOmNsaWVudF9zZWNyZXQ=
Content-Type: application/json
{
   "rememberMe": true
}
cURL Example
curl -i -X POST
     -H "Content-Type: application/json"
     -H "Authorization: Basic Y2xpZW50X2lkOmNsaWVudF9zZWNyZXQ="
     -d '{"rememberMe": true}'
     https://service.domain.org/csc/v2/auth/login
Sample Response
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-Type: application/json;charset=UTF-8
{
   "access_token": "4/CKN69L8gdSYp5_pwH3XlFQZ3ndFhkXf9P2_TiHRG-bA",
   "refresh_token":
   "_TiHRG-bA-H3XlFQZ3ndFhkXf9P24/CKN69L8gdSYp5_pw",
   "expires_in": 3600
}
11.3 auth/revoke
Description
Revoke a service access token or refresh token that was obtained from the remote service or an associated
authorization server. The revocation process is aligned with the OAuth 2.0 revocation mechanism described in
RFC 7009 [13] and can be applied to both tokens issued through calls to remote service methods (e.g. auth/login
as defined in auth/login) and tokens issued as a result of an OAuth 2.0 flow (e.g. oauth2/token as defined in
oauth2/token). This method MAY be used to enforce the security of the remote service. When the signature
application needs to terminate a session, it is RECOMMENDED to invoke this method to prevent further access by
reusing the token.
This method allows the signature application to invalidate its tokens according to the following approach:
f
49

--- PAGE 50 ---
If the token passed to the request is a refresh_token, then the authorization server SHALL invalidate the
refresh token, and it SHALL also invalidate any existing access tokens based on the same authorization
grant.
If the token passed to the request is an access_token, then the authorization server SHALL invalidate the
access token, and it SHALL NOT revoke any existing refresh token based on the same authorization grant.
The invalidation of the token takes place immediately, and the token cannot be used again after its revocation. As
a token issued in the process of credential authorization is automatically invalidated as soon as its usage limit is
reached, a client does not have to revoke the corresponding token after use. However, a provider SHOULD
support the revocation of such token type before reaching the usage limit.
Input
This method allows the following parameters:
Parameter Presence Value Description
token REQUIREDString The token that the signature application wants to get revoked.
token_type_hintOPTIONALString
access_token |
refresh_token
An OPTIONAL hint about the type of the token submitted for revocation. If the
parameter is omitted, the remote service SHOULD try to identify the token across all
the available tokens.
clientDataOPTIONALString The clientData as defined in the Input parameter table in oauth2/authorize.
Output
This method has no output values and the response returns “No Content” status.
Error Case Status CodeError Error Description
The authorization header does not match the pattern “Bearer
[sessionKey]”
400
(bad
request)
invalid_requestMalformed authorization header.
Missing or not String “token” parameter 400
(bad
request)
invalid_requestMissing (or invalid type) string
parameter token
“token_hint” parameter present, not equal to “access_token”
nor “refresh_token”
400
(bad
request)
invalid_requestInvalid string parameter
token_type_hint
Invalid access_token or refresh_token 400
(bad
request)
invalid_requestInvalid string parameter token
Examples
Sample Request
POST /csc/v2/auth/revoke HTTP/1.1
Host: service.domain.org
Authorization: Bearer 4/CKN69L8gdSYp5_pwH3XlFQZ3ndFhkXf9P2_TiHRG-bA
Content-Type: application/json
{
   "token": "_TiHRG-bA-H3XlFQZ3ndFhkXf9P24/CKN69L8gdSYp5_pw",
   "token_type_hint": "refresh_token",
   "clientData": "12345678"
}
cURL Example
f
50

--- PAGE 51 ---
curl -i -X POST
     -H "Content-Type: application/json"
     -H "Authorization: Bearer 4/CKN69L8gdSYp5_pwH3XlFQZ3ndFhkXf9P2_TiHRG-bA"
     -d '{"token": "_TiHRG-bA-H3XlFQZ3ndFhkXf9P24/CKN69L8gdSYp5_pw",
          "token_type_hint": "refresh_token",
          "clientData": "12345678"}'
     https://service.domain.org/csc/v2/auth/revoke
Sample Response
HTTP/1.1 204 No Content
11.4 credentials/create
Description
Creates a new signing credential. If requested, it can also return the new signing certificate, the whole associated
certificate chain, additional information about the signing certificate and/or information about the authorization
mechanism required to authorize the access to the credential for remote signing. This method requires service
and Credential creation authorization.
The remote service MUST collect the subject data needed for the certificate signing request. When Rich
Authorization Requests (RAR) are supported, the subject data MAY be provided by the signature application in
the authorization request. Alternatively, the subject data MAY be collected by the authorization server and made
available to the remote service. The following is a non-exhaustive list of examples of ways that the authorization
server can make the subject data available to the remote service:
In the authorization details of the access token (see Credential creation scope and authorization details),
as custom claims on the access token [i.15], or
at a token introspection endpoint [i.16].
The remote service MAY ignore or overwrite all or some of the subject data provided by the signature
application.
Input
This method allows the following parameters:
f
51

--- PAGE 52 ---
Parameter Presence Value Description
credentialCreationRequestREQUIREDcredentialCreationRequestcredentialCreationRequest object as defined in the CSC data model
[37]. The new credential SHALL be issued in accordance with the
certificatePolicy given in the credentialCreationRequest. The
certificate for the new credential SHOULD contain the subjectData
given in the credentialCreationRequest. The subjectDN of the
certificate for the new credential SHOULD be based on the
subjectData entries given in the credentialCreationRequest. The
RSSP SHOULD specify the format of subjectData.
</td>
credentialInfo OPTIONALBoolean Request to return the main information included in the public key
certificate and the public key certificate itself or the certificate
chain associated to the credentials. The default value is “false”, so if
the parameter is omitted then the information will not be returned.
certificates OPTIONALString
none | single | chain
Specifies which certificates from the certificate chain SHALL be
returned in certs/certificates.
“none”: No certificate SHALL be returned.
“single”: Only the end entity certificate SHALL be returned.
“chain”: The full certificate chain SHALL be returned.
The default value is “single”, so if the parameter is omitted then the
method will only return the end entity certificate.
This parameter MAY be specified only if the parameter
credentialInfo is “true”. If the parameter credentialInfo is not “true”
and this parameter is specified its value SHALL be ignored. If the
certificate chain is requested, it is returned as an array of base64-
encoded X.509 certificates with the end entity certificate being the
first entry.
certInfo OPTIONALBoolean Request to return various parameters containing information from
the end entity certificate(s). This is useful in case the signature
application wants to avoid decoding the certificate(s). The default
value is “false”, so if the parameter is omitted then the information
will not be returned.
This parameter MAY be specified only if the parameter
credentialInfo is “true”. If the parameter credentialInfo is not “true”
and this parameter is specified its value SHALL be ignored.
authData OPTIONALArray of authentication
objects
The authentication objects defining the authentication mechanisms
and protocol that a client application SHALL implement for
subsequent credential usage (see credentials/authorize).
Note 37: If the RSSP accepts subjectData from external parties (e.g. the signature application), the RSSP should
provide those external parties with information about the type and format of the supported subjectData
attributes. The RSSP may, for instance, accept a subset of the entries from an id token as specified in [i.17].
Output
This method returns a credentialInfo object using the “application/json” format (see credentials/list).
f
52

--- PAGE 53 ---
Error Case Status
Code
Error Error Description
The authorization header does not match the pattern
“Bearer [sessionKey]”
400
(bad
request)
invalid_requestMalformed authorization header.
Missing or invalid “credentialCreationRequest”
parameter
400
(bad
request)
invalid_requestMissing (or invalid type) parameter
“credentialCreationRequest”
Missing or not String “certificatePolicy” parameter400
(bad
request)
invalid_requestMissing (or invalid type) string parameter
certificatePolicy
Invalid “certificatePolicy” parameter 400
(bad
request)
invalid_requestInvalid parameter certificatePolicy
Invalid “subjectData” parameter 400
(bad
request)
invalid_requestInvalid parameter subjectData
Invalid “certificates” parameter 400
(bad
request)
invalid_requestInvalid parameter “certificates”
Invalid “certInfo” parameter 400
(bad
request)
invalid_requestInvalid parameter “certInfo”
Invalid “authData” parameter 400
(bad
request)
invalid_requestInvalid parameter “authData”
Examples
Sample Request
POST /csc/v2/credentials/create HTTP/1.1
Host: service.domain.org
Authorization: Bearer 4/CKN69L8gdSYp5_pwH3XlFQ23ndFhKxF9P2_TiHRG-bA
Content-Type: application/json
{
  "credentialCreationRequest": {
    "certificatePolicy": "0.4.0.194112.1.2",
    "subjectData": {
      "family_name": "Doe",
      "given_name": "Alice", 
      "birthdate": "1980-12-01"
    }
  },
  "credentialInfo": true,
  "certificates": "chain"
}
cURL Example
curl -i -X POST \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer 4/CKN69L8gdSYp5_pwH3XlFQ23ndFhKxF9P2_TiHRG-bA" \
  -d '{
        "credentialCreationRequest": {
          "certificatePolicy": "0.4.0.194112.1.2",
          "subjectData": {
            "family_name": "Doe",
            "given_name": "Alice", 
            "birthdate": "1980-12-01"
          }
        },
        "credentialInfo": true,
        "certificates": "chain"
      }' \
  https://service.domain.org/csc/v2/credentials/create
f
53

--- PAGE 54 ---
Sample Response
HTTP/1.1 201 Created
Content-Type: application/json
{
   "credentialID": "GX0112348",
   "signatureQualifier": "eu_eidas_qes",
   "key": { 
      "status": "enabled",
      "algo": [ 
         "1.2.840.113549.1.1.1"
      ],
      "len":2048
   },
   "cert":{
      "status":"valid",
      "certificates":[ 
         "<base64-encoded_X.509_end_entity_certificate>",
         "<base64-encoded_X.509_intermediate_CA_certificate>",
         "<base64-encoded_X.509_root_CA_certificate>"
      ],
      "issuerDN":"<X.500_issuer_DN_printable_string>",
      "serialNumber":"5AAC41CD8FA22B953640",
      "subjectDN":"<X.500_subject_DN_printable_string>",
      "validFrom":"20180101100000Z",
      "validTo":"20190101095959Z"
   },
   "auth": {
      "mode": "oauth2code"
    },
    "SCAL": 2,
    "multisign":5,
    "lang":"en-US"
}
11.5 credentials/delete
Description
Delete an existing signing credential. This method requires service and Credential deletion authorization.
In applications where credential deletion authorization does not require explicit authorization from the
credential owner, the RSSP SHOULD inform the credential owner when a credential is deleted.
Input
This method allows the following parameters:
Parameter Presence Value Description
credentialDeletionRequestREQUIREDcredentialDeletionRequestIdentity of the credential to delete as well as possible request to
revoke the certificate. Defined in the CSC data model [37].
Output
This method has no output values and the response returns “No Content” status.
f
54

--- PAGE 55 ---
Error Case Status
Code
Error Error Description
The authorization header does not match the pattern “Bearer
[sessionKey]”
400
(bad
request)
invalid_requestMalformed authorization header.
Missing or not String “credentialID” parameter 400
(bad
request)
invalid_requestMissing (or invalid type) string
parameter “credentialID”
Invalid “credentialID” parameter 400
(bad
request)
invalid_requestInvalid parameter “credentialID”
The “credentialID” parameters in credentialDeletionRequest disagrees
with the “credentialID” in the authorization details
400
(bad
request)
invalid_requestContradicting “credentialID”
parameters
Examples
Sample Request
/csc/v2/credentials/delete — DM-compliant request (simple delete)
POST /csc/v2/credentials/delete HTTP/1.1
Host: service.domain.org
Authorization: Bearer 4/CKN69L8gdSYp5_pwH3XlFQZ3ndFhkXf9P2_TiHRG-bA
Content-Type: application/json
{
  "credentialDeletionRequest": {
    "credentialID": "cred_8f2a3ff"
  }
}
cURL Example
curl -i -X POST \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer 4/CKN69L8gdSYp5_pwH3XlFQZ3ndFhkXf9P2_TiHRG-bA" \
  -d '{ "credentialDeletionRequest":{"credentialID":"cred_8f2a3ff"} }' \
  https://service.domain.org/csc/v2/credentials/delete
Sample Response
HTTP/1.1 204 No Content
Sample Request
/csc/v2/credentials/delete — DM-compliant request (delete + revoke with reason)
POST /csc/v2/credentials/delete HTTP/1.1
Host: service.domain.org
Authorization: Bearer 4/CKN69L8gdSYp5_pwH3XlFQZ3ndFhkXf9P2_TiHRG-bA
Content-Type: application/json
{
  "credentialDeletionRequest": {
    "credentialID": "cred_8f2a3ff",
    "revoke": true,
    "revocationReason": 1
  }
}
cURL Example
f
55

--- PAGE 56 ---
curl -i -X POST \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer 4/CKN69L8gdSYp5_pwH3XlFQZ3ndFhkXf9P2_TiHRG-bA" \
  -d '{"credentialDeletionRequest":
{"credentialID":"cred_8f2a3ff","revoke":true,"revocationReason":1}}' \
  https://service.domain.org/csc/v2/credentials/delete
Sample Response
HTTP/1.1 204 No Content
Error Response (Malformed Authorization header)
HTTP/1.1 400 Bad Request
Content-Type: application/json
{
  "error": "invalid_request",
  "error_description": "Malformed authorization header."
}
Error Response (Missing / non-string credentialID)
HTTP/1.1 400 Bad Request
Content-Type: application/json
{
  "error": "invalid_request",
  "error_description": "Missing (or invalid type) string parameter \"credentialID\""
}
Error Response (Invalid credentialID)
HTTP/1.1 400 Bad Request
Content-Type: application/json
{
  "error": "invalid_request",
  "error_description": "Invalid parameter \"credentialID\""
}
11.6 credentials/list
Description
Returns the list of credentials associated with a user identifier. A user MAY have one or multiple credentials
hosted by a single remote signing service provider.
If requested, it can also return the signing certificate, the whole associated certificate chain, additional
information about the signing certificate and/or information about the authorization mechanism required to
authorize the access to the credentials for remote signing.
If the user is authenticated directly by the RSSP then the userID is implicit and SHALL NOT be specified.
This method can also be used in case of a community of users, to let the client retrieve the list of credentials
assigned to a specific user of the community. In this case the userID SHALL be passed explicitly to retrieve the list
of credentialIDs for a specific user. Managing a community of users that are authenticated by the client using a
specific authentication framework is out of the scope of this specification.
Input
This method allows the following parameters:
f
56

--- PAGE 57 ---
Parameter Presence Value Description
userIDREQUIRED
Conditional
String The identifier associated to the identity of the credential owner. This parameter SHALL NOT
be present if the service authorization is user-specific (see NOTE below). In that case the
userID is already implicit in the service access token passed in the Authorization header.
If a user-specific service authorization is present, it SHALL NOT be allowed to use this
parameter to obtain the list of credentials associated to a different user. The remote service
SHALL return an error in such case.
credentialInfoOPTIONALBoolean Request to return the main information included in the public key certificate and the public
key certificate itself or the certificate chain associated to the credentials. The default value
is “false”, so if the parameter is omitted then the information will not be returned.
certificatesOPTIONAL
Conditional
String
none |
single |
chain
Specifies which certificates from the certificate chain SHALL be returned in
certs/certificates.
“none”: No certificate SHALL be returned.
“single”: Only the end entity certificate SHALL be returned.
“chain”: The full certificate chain SHALL be returned.
The default value is “single”, so if the parameter is omitted then the method will only return
the end entity certificate(s).
This parameter MAY be specified only if the parameter credentialInfo is “true”. If the
parameter credentialInfo is not “true” and this parameter is specified its value SHALL be
ignored.
certInfo OPTIONAL
Conditional
Boolean Request to return various parameters containing information from the end entity
certificate(s). This is useful in case the signature application wants to retrieve some details
of the certificate(s) without having to decode it first. The default value is “false”, so if the
parameter is omitted then the information will not be returned.
This parameter MAY be specified only if the parameter credentialInfo is “true”. If the
parameter credentialInfo is not “true” and this parameter is specified its value SHALL be
ignored.
authInfo OPTIONAL
Conditional
Boolean Request to return various parameters containing information on the authorization
mechanisms supported by the corresponding credential (auth group). The default value is
“false”, so if the parameter is omitted then the information will not be returned.
This parameter MAY be specified only if the parameter credentialInfo is “true”. If the
parameter credentialInfo is not “true” and this parameter is specified its value SHALL be
ignored.
onlyValidOPTIONAL
Conditional
Boolean Request to return only credentials usable to create a valid signature. The default value is
“false”, so if the parameter is omitted then the method will return all credentials available
to the owner.
The remote service MAY NOT support this parameter. When the parameter is supported
SHALL be returned in output.
lang OPTIONALString The lang as defined in the Input parameter table in info.
clientDataOPTIONALString The clientData as defined in the Input parameter table in oauth2/authorize.
Note 38: User-specific service authorization include the following authType: “basic”, “digest” and “oauth2code”.
Non-user-specific service authorization include the following authType: “external”, “TLS” or “oauth2client”.
Output
This method returns the following values using the “application/json” format:
Attribute Presence Value Description
credentialIDsREQUIREDArray of String One or more credentialID(s) associated with the provided or implicit userID.
credentialInfosOPTIONAL
Conditional
Array of
CredentialInfo
The contents of credentialInfo object are described below. If the credentialInfo
parameter is not “true”, this value SHALL NOT be returned.
onlyValidREQUIRED
Conditional
Boolean This value SHALL be returned true when the input parameter “onlyValid” was true, and
the RSSP supports this feature, i.e. the RSSP only returns credentials which can be used
for signing.
If the values is false or the output parameter is omitted, then the list may contain
credentials which cannot be used for signing.
f
57

--- PAGE 58 ---
The ‘credentialInfo Object’ is a JSON Object composed by the attributes specified in the following table.
f
58

--- PAGE 59 ---
Attribute Presence Value Description
credentialIDREQUIREDString The credentialID identifying one of the credentials associated with the
provided or implicit userID.
description OPTIONALString A free form description of the credential in the lang language. The maximum
size of the string is 255 characters.
signatureQualifierOPTIONALsignatureQualifierIdentifier qualifying the type of signature this credential is suitable for (see
signatures/signDoc).
key/statusREQUIREDString
enabled | disabled
The status of the signing key of the credential:
“enabled”: the signing key is enabled and can be used for signing.
“disabled”: the signing key is disabled and cannot be used for signing.
This MAY occur when the owner has disabled it or when the RSSP has
detected that the associated certificate is expired or revoked.
key/algo REQUIREDArray of String The list of OIDs of the supported key algorithms. For example:
1.2.840.113549.1.1.1 = RSA encryption, 1.2.840.10045.4.3.2 = ECDSA with
SHA256.
key/len REQUIREDInteger The length of the cryptographic key in bits.
key/curve REQUIRED
Conditional
String The OID of the ECDSA curve. The value SHALL only be returned if keyAlgo is
based on ECDSA.
cert/statusOPTIONALString
valid | expired |
revoked |
suspended
The status of validity of the end entity certificate. The value is OPTIONAL, so
the remote service SHOULD only return a value that is accurate and consistent
with the actual validity status of the certificate at the time the response is
generated.
cert/certificatesREQUIRED
Conditional
Array of String One or more base64-encoded X.509v3 certificates from the certificate chain. If
the certificates parameter is “chain”, the entire certificate chain SHALL be
returned with the end entity certificate at the beginning of the array. If the
certificates parameter is “single”, only the end entity certificate SHALL be
returned. If the certificates parameter is “none”, this value SHALL NOT be
returned.
cert/issuerDNREQUIRED
Conditional
String The Issuer Distinguished Name from the X.509v3 end entity certificate as UTF-
8-encoded character string according to RFC 4514 [4]. This value SHALL be
returned when certInfo is “true”.
cert/serialNumberREQUIRED
Conditional
String The Serial Number from the X.509v3 end entity certificate represented as hex-
encoded string format. This value SHALL be returned when certInfo is “true”.
cert/subjectDNREQUIRED
Conditional
String The Subject Distinguished Name from the X.509v3 end entity certificate as UTF-
8-encoded character string, according to RFC 4514 [4]. This value SHALL be
returned when certInfo is “true”.
cert/validFromREQUIRED
Conditional
String The validity start date from the X.509v3 end entity certificate as character
string, encoded as GeneralizedTime (RFC 5280 [8])
(e.g. “YYYYMMDDHHMMSSZ”). This value SHALL be returned when certInfo is
“true”.
cert/validTo REQUIRED
Conditional
String The validity end date from the X.509v3 end entity certificate as character
string, encoded as GeneralizedTime (RFC 5280 [8])
(e.g. “YYYYMMDDHHMMSSZ”). This value SHALL be returned when certInfo is
“true”.
auth/modeREQUIREDString
explicit |
oauth2code
Specifies one of the authorization modes. For more information also see OAuth
2.0 Authorization:
“explicit”: the authorization process is managed by the signature
application, which collects authentication factors of various types.
“oauth2code”: the authorization process is managed by the remote
service using an OAuth 2.0 mechanism based on authorization code as
described in Section 1.3.1 of RFC 6749 [11].
auth/expressionOPTIONAL
Conditional
String An expression defining the combination of authentication objects required to
authorize usage of the private key.
If empty, an “AND” of all authentication objects is implied.
Supported operators are: “AND” | “OR” | “XOR” | “(” | “)” This value SHALL
NOT be returned if auth/mode is not “explicit”.
f
59

--- PAGE 60 ---
Attribute Presence Value Description
auth/objectsREQUIRED
Conditional
Array of
authentication
object types
The authentication object types available for this credential.
This value SHALL only be returned if auth/mode is “explicit”.
SCAL OPTIONALString
1 | 2
Specifies if the RSSP will generate for this credential a signature activation data
(SAD) or an access token with scope “credential” that contains a link to the
hash to-be-signed:
“1”: The hash to-be-signed is not linked to the signature activation data.
“2”: The hash to-be-signed is linked to the signature activation data.
This value is OPTIONAL and the default value is “1”.
See Note below.
multisign REQUIREDInteger
≥ 1
A number equal or higher to 1 representing the maximum number of
signatures that can be created with this credential with a single authorization
request (e.g. by calling credentials/ signHash method, as defined in
signatures/signHash, once with multiple hash values or calling it multiple
times). The value of numSignatures specified in the authorization request
SHALL NOT exceed the value of this value.
lang OPTIONALString The lang as defined in the Output parameter table in info.
Note 39: As described in the difference between SCAL1 and SCAL2 in Credential authorization, the value “2” only
gives information on the link between the hash and the SAD (or access token with scope “credential”), it
does not give information if a full SCAL2 as described in CEN TS 119 241-1 [i.5] is implemented.
Error Case Status Code Error Error Description
The authorization header does not match the pattern “Bearer
[sessionKey]”
400
(bad
request)
invalid_requestMalformed authorization
header.
Not empty “userID” parameter in case of user-specific authorization400
(bad
request)
invalid_requestuserID parameter MUST be null
Invalid “userID” format in case of no user-specific authorization 400
(bad
request)
invalid_requestInvalid parameter userID
When present, invalid “certificates” parameter 400
(bad
request)
invalid_requestInvalid parameter certificates
Examples
Sample Request
POST /csc/v2/credentials/list HTTP/1.1
Host: service.domain.org
Authorization: Bearer 4/CKN69L8gdSYp5_pwH3XlFQZ3ndFhkXf9P2_TiHRG-bA
Content-Type: application/json
{
   "credentialInfo": true,
   "certificates": "chain",
   "certInfo": true,
   "authInfo": true
}
cURL Example
f
60

--- PAGE 61 ---
curl -i -X POST
     -H "Content-Type: application/json"
     -H "Authorization: Bearer 4/CKN69L8gdSYp5_pwH3XlFQZ3ndFhkXf9P2_TiHRG-bA"
     -d '{"credentialInfo": true,
          "certificates": "chain",
          "certInfo": true,
          "authInfo": true}'
     https://service.domain.org/csc/v2/credentials/list
Sample Response
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-Type: application/json;charset=UTF-8
{
   "credentialIDs": [ "GX0112348", "HX0224685" ]
   "credentialInfos":
    [ 
        {
            "credentialID": "GX0112348",
            "key":
            {
                "status": "enabled",
                "algo": [ "1.2.840.113549.1.1.11", "1.2.840.113549.1.1.10" ],
                "len": 2048
            },
            "cert":
            {
                "status": "valid",
                "certificates":
                [
                    "<base64-encoded_X.509_end_entity_certificate>",
                    "<base64-encoded_X.509_intermediate_CA_certificate>",
                    "<base64-encoded_X.509_root_CA_certificate>"
                ],
                "issuerDN":"<X.500_issuer_DN_printable_string>",
                "serialNumber": "5AAC41CD8FA22B953640",
                "subjectDN": "<X.500_subject_DN_printable_string>",
                "validFrom": "20200101100000Z",
                "validTo": "20230101095959Z"
            },
            "auth": {
                "mode": "explicit",
                "expression": "PIN AND OTP",
                "objects": [
                    {
                        "type": "Password",
                        "id": "PIN",
                        "format": "N",
                        "label": "PIN",
                        "description": "Please enter the signature PIN"                     
                    },
                    {
                        "type": "Password",
                        "id": "OTP",
                        "format": "N",
                        "generator": "totp",
                        "label": "Mobile OTP",
                        "description": "Please enter the 6 digit code you received by SMS"
                    }
                ]
            }
            "multisign": 5,
            "lang": "en-US"
        },
        {
            "credentialID": "HX0224685",
            ………
            ………
        }
    ]
}
f
61

--- PAGE 62 ---
11.7 credentials/info
Description
Retrieves the credential. If requested, it can also return the signing certificate, the whole associated certificate
chain, additional information about the signing certificate and/or information about the authorization
mechanism required to authorize the access to the credential for remote signing.
Input
This method allows the following parameters:
Parameter Presence Value Description
credentialIDREQUIREDString The unique identifier associated to the credential.
certificatesOPTIONALString
none | single | chain
The certificates as defined in the Input parameter table in credentials/list.
certInfo OPTIONALBoolean The certInfo as defined in the Input parameter table in credentials/list.
authInfo OPTIONALBoolean The authInfo as defined in the Input parameter table in credentials/list.
lang OPTIONALStrings The lang as defined in the Input parameter table in info.
clientDataOPTIONALString The clientData as defined in the Input parameter table in oauth2/authorize.
Output
This method returns the following values using the “application/json” format:
f
62

--- PAGE 63 ---
Attribute Presence Value Description
description OPTIONALString The description as defined
in the credentialInfo Object
attribute table in
credentials/list.
signatureQualifierOPTIONALsignatureQualifierIdentifier qualifying the
type of signature this
credential is suitable for
(see signatures/signDoc).
key/statusREQUIREDString
enabled | disabled
The key/status as defined in
the credentialInfo Object
attribute table in
credentials/list.
key/algo REQUIREDArray of String The key/algo as defined in
the credentialInfo Object
attribute table in
credentials/list.
key/len REQUIREDInteger The key/len as defined in
the credentialInfo Object
attribute table in
credentials/list.
key/curve REQUIRED
Conditional
String The key/curve as defined in
the credentialInfo Object
attribute table in
credentials/list.
cert/statusOPTIONALString
valid | expired |
revoked |
suspended
The cert/status as defined
in the credentialInfo Object
attribute table in
credentials/list.
cert/certificatesREQUIRED
Conditional
Array of String The cert/certificates as
defined in the
credentialInfo Object
attribute table in
credentials/list.
cert/issuerDNREQUIRED
Conditional
String The cert/issuerDN as
defined in the
credentialInfo Object
attribute table in
credentials/list.
cert/serialNumberREQUIRED
Conditional
String The cert/serialNumber as
defined in the
credentialInfo Object
attribute table in
credentials/list.
cert/subjectDNREQUIRED
Conditional
String The cert/subjectDN as
defined in the
credentialInfo Object
attribute table in
credentials/list.
cert/validFromREQUIRED
Conditional
String The cert/validFrom as
defined in the
credentialInfo Object
attribute table in
credentials/list.
cert/validTo REQUIRED
Conditional
String The cert/validTo as defined
in the credentialInfo Object
attribute table in
credentials/list.
cert/qcStatementsREQUIREDArray of Strings qcStatements: is an array of OIDs formated as
strings that SHALL contain any value of
qcStatements field (e.g.: [“0.4.0.1862.1.1”,
f
63

--- PAGE 64 ---
Attribute Presence Value Description
“0.4.0.1862.1.4”, “0.4.0.1862.1.6.1”]). The
qcStatements field is defined according to rfc
3739 and ETSI EN 319 412-5. e.g. - id-etsi-qcs-
QcCompliance - id-etsi-qcs-QcSSCD - id-etsi-qcs-
QcType
cert/policyOPTIONALArray of String certificate policy OID under
which the certificate was
issued
auth/modeREQUIREDString
explicit |
oauth2code
The auth/mode as defined
in the credentialInfo Object
attribute table in
credentials/list.
auth/expressionOPTIONAL
Conditional
String The auth/expression as
defined in the
credentialInfo Object
attribute table in
credentials/list.
auth/objectsREQUIRED
Conditional
Array of
authentication
object types
The auth/objects as defined
in the credentialInfo Object
attribute table in
credentials/list.
SCAL OPTIONALString
1 | 2
The SCAL as defined in the
credentialInfo Object
attribute table in
credentials/list.
See the Note in
credentials/list about the
SCAL attribute.
multisign REQUIREDInteger
≥ 1
The multisign as defined in
the credentialInfo Object
attribute table in
credentials/list.
lang OPTIONALString The lang as defined in the
Output parameter table in
info.
Error Case Status CodeError Error Description
The authorization header does not match the pattern
“Bearer [sessionKey]”
400
(bad
request)
invalid_requestMalformed authorization header.
Missing or not String “credentialID” parameter 400
(bad
request)
invalid_requestMissing (or invalid type) string parameter
credentialID
Invalid “credentialID” parameter 400
(bad
request)
invalid_requestInvalid parameter credentialID
Invalid “certificates” parameter 400
(bad
request)
invalid_requestInvalid parameter certificates
Examples
Sample Request
f
64

--- PAGE 65 ---
POST /csc/v2/credentials/info HTTP/1.1
Host: service.domain.org
Authorization: Bearer 4/CKN69L8gdSYp5_pwH3XlFQZ3ndFhkXf9P2_TiHRG-bA
Content-Type: application/json
{
   "credentialID": "GX0112348",
   "certificates": "chain",
   "certInfo": true,
   "authInfo": true
}
cURL Example
curl -i -X POST
     -H "Content-Type: application/json"
     -H "Authorization: Bearer 4/CKN69L8gdSYp5_pwH3XlFQZ3ndFhkXf9P2_TiHRG-bA"
     -d '{"credentialID": "GX0112348",
          "certificates": "chain",
          "certInfo": true,
          "authInfo": true }'
     https://service.domain.org/csc/v2/credentials/info
Sample Response
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-Type: application/json;charset=UTF-8
{ 
   "key":{ 
      "status":"enabled",
      "algo":[ 
         "1.2.840.113549.1.1.1",
         "0.4.0.127.0.7.1.1.4.1.3"
      ],
      "len":2048
   },
   "cert":{ 
      "status":"valid",
      "certificates":[ 
         "<base64-encoded_X.509_end_entity_certificate>",
         "<base64-encoded_X.509_intermediate_CA_certificate>",
         "<base64-encoded_X.509_root_CA_certificate>"
      ],
      "issuerDN":"<X.500_issuer_DN_printable_string>",
      "serialNumber":"5AAC41CD8FA22B953640",
      "subjectDN":"<X.500_subject_DN_printable_string>",
      "validFrom":"20180101100000Z",
      "validTo":"20190101095959Z"
   },
    "auth": {
        "mode": "explicit",
        "expression": "PIN AND OTP",
        "objects": {
            {
                "type": "Password",
                "id": "PIN",
                "format": "N",
                "label": "PIN",
                "description": "Please enter the signature PIN"                     
            },
            {
                "type": "Password",
                "id": "OTP",
                "format": "N",
                "generator": "totp",
                "label": "Mobile OTP",
                "description": "Please enter the 6 digit code you received by SMS"
            }
        }
    }
   "multisign":5,
   "lang":"en-US"
}
f
65

--- PAGE 66 ---
11.8 credentials/authorize
Description
Authorize the access to the credential for remote signing, according to the authorization mechanisms associated
to it. This method returns the Signature Activation Data (SAD) required to authorize the signatures/signHash
method, as defined in signatures/signHash or signatures/signDoc method, as defined in signatures/signDoc.
Authentication objects and corresponding values collected from the user SHALL be included in the request
according to the requirements specified by the credentials/info method, as defined in credentials/info.
This method SHALL be used in case of “explicit” authorization. This method SHALL also be used in case that no
authentication objects are required, to trigger a possible authorization mechanism managed by the remote
service. This method SHALL NOT be used in case of “oauth2” credential authorization; instead, any of the
available OAuth 2.0 authorization mechanisms SHALL be used.
The numSignatures parameter SHALL indicate the total number of signatures to authorize. In case of multi-
signature transactions where the signatures/signHash method is invoked multiple times, the signature
application SHALL obtain a new SAD by invoking the credentials/extendTransaction method, as defined in
credentials/extendTransaction, before the current SAD expires. In such cases the hashes to be signed may not all
be available when the authorization is performed, for example in case of multiple signatures applied to a PDF file
with a single credential. Further hashes should then be passed as an input to credentials/extendTransaction to
make each SAD calculation dependent on the data to be signed. This approach may break the support of SCAL 2
requirements, therefore a remote signing service MAY fail if the hash parameter does not contain a number of
hash values corresponding to the value in numSignatures.
Input
This method allows the following parameters:
Parameter Presence Value Description
credentialIDREQUIREDString The credentialID as defined in the Input parameter table in credentials/info.
numSignaturesREQUIREDInteger The number of signatures to authorize. Multi-signature transactions can be
obtained by using a combination of passing an array of hash values and calling the
signatures/signHash method, as defined in signatures/signHash, multiple times.
hashes REQUIRED
Conditional
Array of StringOne or more base64-encoded hash values to be signed. It allows the server to bind
the SAD to the hash(es), thus preventing an authorization to be used to sign a
different content. If the SCAL parameter returned by credentials/info method, as
defined in credentials/info, for the current credentialID is “2” the hash parameter
SHALL be used and the number of hash values SHOULD correspond to the value in
numSignatures. If the SCAL parameter is “1”, the hash parameter is OPTIONAL.
hashAlgorithmOIDREQUIRED
Conditional
String String containing the OID of the hash algorithm used to generate the hash values.
authData REQUIRED
Conditional
Array of
authentication
objects
The authentication objects as described by the authentication object types in
credentials/info. It SHALL be used only when auth/mode from credentials/info is
“explicit”.
description OPTIONALString A free form description of the authorization transaction in the lang language. The
maximum size of the string is 500 characters. It can be useful to provide some hints
about the occurring transaction.
clientData OPTIONALString The clientData as defined in the Input parameter table in oauth2/authorize.
Authentication objects
An authentication object type describes the data structure and protocol of authentication mechanisms, much
the same way as it is done in the PKCS#15 standard. Authentication object types are returned by the
credentials/info method, such that the Signature Application can show the proper interactive controls to collect
them from the user.
f
66

--- PAGE 67 ---
Each authentication object type is associated with a type property, defining both the data structure that a client
application SHALL provide and the protocol that SHALL be processed. The id property is used to identify the
associated authentication object type in a concrete authentication object data structure.
The number and type of authentication object types is provider specific.
Depending on the authentication object type the Signature Application collects concrete authentication object
data and drives the associated protocol. The authentication object data is sent using the method
credentials/authorize.
The following is an example authentication object type, describing the need for a password entry:
This indicates to the client that it needs to send an alphanumeric password within a later authorization request,
identifying it as “PIN”. When requesting user input, the client may present the required data as “Personal PIN” to
the user.
In consequence, the client might send an authentication object as seen in the following example:
This example assumes that the client has received a PIN value of “1234”, which is conveyed to the authorization
endpoint.
See the following sections for a thorough description of these data structures.
Out-of-band response
“Out-of-band response” is used here whenever an authentication object is sent to the service provider by using
some protocol and session not associated and described in this API specification. This can be for example an
SMS, phone or email channel.
With an out-of-band response the call to credentials/authorize does not have any knowledge about the state of
the out-of-band task. Processing of the call can be implemented using a polling or blocking approach. As such,
the processing can either
terminate with an HTTP 200, returning the specified result tokens.
terminate with an HTTP 202 as an indication that the out-of-band result is not yet available. The client has
to re-issue a request to credentials/authorizeCheck (polling). Eventually the request will terminate with an
error or HTTP 200.
Common properties
The following properties are common to all authentication object types as they are received from
credentials/info.
{
    "type": "Password",
    "id": "PIN",
    "label": "Personal PIN",
    "format" : "A"
}
{
    "id": "PIN",
    "value": "1234"
}
f
67

--- PAGE 68 ---
Name Presence Description
typeREQUIREDThe type of the authentication object. This describes the data structure and protocol. The value SHALL be one
of the tokens defined in this specification. A provider MAY not support all token types.
id REQUIREDThe unique identifier of the authentication object.
label OPTIONALA label to be presented to the user. It is used to identify the requested authentication data in human-readable
manner.
descriptionOPTIONALA description to be presented to the user. It carries instructions on how to provide the authentication data.
The following properties are common to all authentication objects as they are sent via credentials/authorize.
Name Presence Description
id REQUIRED The unique identifier of the authentication object.
Password, in band response
The Password type simply requires the client to collect authentication information from the user and send it to
the provider in-band.
Be aware that from a provider point of view an OTP generated statically / offline by a client side token is simply a
“Password” type, too.
This authentication object type allows for the definition of
Simple password authentication
“offline” OTP generation
Combinations thereof, e.g. the requirement of having two PINs entered (4 eyes).
Authentication type properties:
Name Presence Value Description
typeREQUIRED“Password”
format OPTIONAL“A”|“N” Specifies the format of the password: - “A”: alphanumeric text; allowed characters: A-Z | a-z | 0-9 -
“N”: numeric text If omitted, any character is allowed.
generatorOPTIONALString If a client side device or algorithm is needed to derive the password, it can be referenced by this
property. E.g. a trust service provider can have issued multiple tokens and allows the user to
identify the required one using this property.
Authentication object properties:
Name Presence Description
value REQUIRED The concrete password value.
Example I authentication type:
Example I authentication object:
{
    "type": "Password",
    "id": "PIN",
    "label": "PIN",
    "format" : "N"
}
{
    "id": "PIN",
    "value": "1234"
}
f
68

--- PAGE 69 ---
Example II authentication type:
Example II authentication object:
Password, out of band response
The PasswordOOB indicates that by some unspecified mechanism an authentication object is sent to the service
provider.
This authentication object type allows for the definition of
SMS, phone or email authorization
Provider-specific authorization without user agent intervention
Authentication type properties:
Name Presence Value Description
typeREQUIRED“PasswordOOB”
generatorOPTIONALString If a client side device or algorithm is needed to derive the password, it can be referenced by
this property. E.g. a trust service provider can have issued multiple tokens and allows the user
to select one of them using this property.
Authentication object properties:
Name Presence Description
-
An empty authentication object is required to indicate to the server that some out-of-band data must be
acquired for this authorization.
Example authentication type:
Example authentication object:
ChallengeResponse, in band response
The authorization process may be based on a challenge response protocol where the response is created by a
client side mechanism. The mechanism itself is out of scope for this specification. The response is then sent via
{
    "type": "Password",
    "id": "OTP",
    "label": "OTP",
    "generator" : "b23",
    "format" : "A"
}
{
    "id": "OTP",
    "value": "3rfd45s"
}
{
    "type": "PasswordOOB",
    "id": "PIN2",
    "label": "PIN2"
}
{
    "id": "PIN2"
}
f
69

--- PAGE 70 ---
credentials/authorize in-band.
This is typically used where
the user is in possession of a token that requires input of a challenge and provides an OTP that needs to
be sent to the service as a response.
A literal challenge is sent to the user via SMS, email or other out-of-band channel to be sent to the service
as a response.
Authentication type properties:
Name Presence Value Description
typeREQUIRED“ChallengeResponse”
format OPTIONAL“A”|“N” Specifies the format of the password: - “A”: alphanumeric text; allowed characters: A-Z |
a-z | 0-9 - “N”: numeric text If omitted, any character is allowed.
generatorOPTIONALString If a client side device or algorithm is needed to derive the password, it can be referenced
by this property. E.g. a trust service provider may have issued multiple tokens and allows
the user to select one of them using this property.
Authentication object properties:
Name Presence Description
value REQUIRED The concrete response value.
This authentication object type requires the signature application to request a challenge from the service
provider using credentials/getChallenge. The credentials/getChallenge method needs the id of the
authentication object to decide which challenge to generate. The reply is either
the challenge itself, using an HTTP status code 200. In this case, the signature application is required to
display the challenge in order to inform the user and prepare her to derive the response.
An HTTP status code 201. The challenge is sent out of band to the user. The signature application only
provides means to enter the response for the user.
Example authentication type
Example authentication object
ChallengeResponse, out of band response
The authorization process is based on a challenge response protocol where the response is created by a client-
side mechanism. The mechanism itself is out of scope for this specification. The response is then sent via some
out of band mechanism that is again outside the scope of this specification.
Authentication type properties:
{
    "type": "ChallengeResponse",
    "id": "OTP",
    "label": "OTP"
}
{
    "id": "OTP",
    "value": "sadf8aef"
}
f
70

--- PAGE 71 ---
Name Presence Value Description
typeREQUIRED“ChallengeResponseOOB”
generatorOPTIONALString If a client side device or algorithm is needed to derive the password, it can be
referenced by this property. E.g. a trust service provider may have issued multiple
tokens and allows the user to select one of them using this property.
Authentication object properties:
Name Presence Description
There is no data sent in band.
This authentication object type requires the signature application to request a challenge using
credentials/getChallenge. The credentials/getChallenge method needs the id of the authentication object to
decide which challenge to generate. The reply is either
the challenge itself, using an HTTP status code 200. In this case, the signature application is required to
display the challenge in order to inform the user and prepare him to derive the response.
An HTTP status code 201 The challenge is sent out of band to the user. The signature application only
provides means to enter the response for the user.
Example authentication type
Example authentication object
An empty authentication object is required to indicate to the server that some out-of-band data must be
acquired for this authorization.
Output
With HTTP status code 200, the method returns the Signature Activation Data using the “application/json”
format:
AttributePresence Value Description
SADREQUIREDStringThe Signature Activation Data (SAD) to be used as input to the signatures/signHash method, as defined
in signatures/signHash.
expiresInOPTIONALIntegerThe lifetime in seconds of the SAD. If omitted, the default expiration time is 3600 (1 hour).
With HTTP status code 202 the method indicates that some authorization is still underway. The result contains a
handle that can be used to poll the state of the authorization via credentials/authorizeCheck.
Attribute Presence Value Description
handleREQUIREDStringAn opaque handle that can be used to request the state of the authorization.
{
    "type": "ChallengeResponseOOB",
    "id": "SMS",
    "label": "SMS"
}
{
    "id": "SMS"
}
f
71

--- PAGE 72 ---
Error Case Status
Code
Error Error Description
The authorization header does not match the
pattern “Bearer [sessionKey]”
400
(bad
request)
invalid_request Malformed authorization header.
Missing or not String “credentialID” parameter400
(bad
request)
invalid_request Missing (or invalid type) string
parameter credentialID
Invalid “credentialID” parameter 400
(bad
request)
invalid_request Invalid parameter credentialID
Signing key for “credentialID” is disabled 400
(bad
request)
invalid_request The credential identified by credentialID
is disabled
Missing or not integer “numSignatures” parameter400
(bad
request)
invalid_request Missing (or invalid type) integer
parameter numSignatures
“numSignatures” < 1 400
(bad
request)
invalid_request Invalid value for parameter
numSignatures
“numSignatures” > “multisign” 400
(bad
request)
invalid_request Numbers of signatures is too high
Invalid authentication data 400
(bad
request)
invalid_authentication_dataThe authentication data is invalid
Credential locked 400
(bad
request)
invalid_request Credential locked
Note 40: In case wrong authentication data is provided several times, the remote signing service MAY lock the
credential or the usage of respective authentication objects. The policy adopted by the RSSP in this regard
is out of the scope of this specification.
Examples
Sample Request
POST /csc/v2/credentials/authorize HTTP/1.1
Host: service.domain.org
Content-Type: application/json
Authorization: Bearer 4/CKN69L8gdSYp5_pwH3XlFQZ3ndFhkXf9P2_TiHRG-bA
{ 
   "credentialID":"GX0112348",
   "numSignatures":2,
   "hashes":[ 
      "sTOgwOm+474gFj0q0x1iSNspKqbcse4IeiqlDg/HWuI=",
      "c1RPZ3dPbSs0NzRnRmowcTB4MWlTTnNwS3FiY3NlNEllaXFsRGcvSFd1ST0="
   ],
   "hashAlgorithmOID": "2.16.840.1.101.3.4.2.1",
   "authData": [
        {
            "id": "PIN",
            "value": "123456"
        },
        {
            "id": "OTP",
            "value": "738496"
        }
   ],
   "clientData":"12345678"
}
f
72

--- PAGE 73 ---
cURL Example
curl -X POST
     -H "Content-Type: application/json"
     -H "Authorization: Bearer 4/CKN69L8gdSYp5_pwH3XlFQZ3ndFhkXf9P2_TiHRG-bA"
     -d '{ "credentialID": "GX0112348",
           "numSignatures": 2,
           "hashes": [ "sTOgwOm+474gFj0q0x1iSNspKqbcse4IeiqlDg/HWuI=",
           "c1RPZ3dPbSs0NzRnRmowcTB4MWlTTnNwS3FiY3NlNEllaXFsRGcvSFd1ST0="
           ],
       "hashAlgorithmOID": "2.16.840.1.101.3.4.2.1",
           "authData": [
                {
                    "id": "PIN",
                    "value": "123456"
                },
                {
                    "id": "OTP",
                    "value": "738496"
                }
           ],
           "clientData": "12345678" }'
     https://service.domain.org/csc/v2/credentials/authorize
Sample Response
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-Type: application/json;charset=UTF-8
{
   "SAD":"_TiHRG-bAH3XlFQZ3ndFhkXf9P24/CKN69L8gdSYp5_pw"
}
Sample Response
HTTP/1.1 202 OK
Content-Type: application/json;charset=UTF-8
{
   "handle": "878287f37b2bv293bv2bv237bv297bvbv"
}
11.9 credentials/authorizeCheck
Description
After a credentials/authorize with HTTP result code 202, the client may use the handle returned to poll the
authorization state.
Input
This method allows the following parameters:
Parameter Presence Value Description
handle REQUIREDString The handle value returned from credentials/authorize.
Output
With HTTP status code 200, the method returns the Signature Activation Data using the “application/json”
format:
AttributePresence Value Description
SADREQUIREDStringThe Signature Activation Data (SAD) to be used as input to the signatures/signHash method, as defined
in signatures/signHash.
expiresInOPTIONALIntegerThe lifetime in seconds of the SAD. If omitted, the default expiration time is 3600 (1 hour).
f
73

--- PAGE 74 ---
With HTTP status code 202 the method indicates that some authorization is still underway. The result contains a
handle that can be used to poll the state of the authorization via repeated calls to credentials/authorizeCheck.
Attribute Presence Value Description
handleREQUIREDStringAn opaque handle that can be used to request the state of the authorization.
Error Case Status CodeError Error Description
The authorization header does not match the pattern “Bearer
[sessionKey]”
400
(bad
request)
invalid_request Malformed authorization
header.
Invalid “handle” parameter 400
(bad
request)
invalid_request Invalid parameter handle
Invalid authentication data 400
(bad
request)
invalid_authentication_dataThe authentication data is
invalid
Credential locked 400
(bad
request)
invalid_request Credential locked
Note 41: In case wrong authentication data is provided several times, the remote signing service MAY lock the
credential or the usage of respective authentication objects. The policy adopted by the RSSP in this regard
is out of the scope of this specification.
Examples
Sample Request
POST /csc/v2/credentials/authorizeCheck HTTP/1.1
Host: service.domain.org
Content-Type: application/json
Authorization: Bearer 4/CKN69L8gdSYp5_pwH3XlFQZ3ndFhkXf9P2_TiHRG-bA
{ 
   "handle":"878287f37b2bv293bv2bv237bv297bvbv"
}
cURL Example
curl -X POST
     -H "Content-Type: application/json"
     -H "Authorization: Bearer 4/CKN69L8gdSYp5_pwH3XlFQZ3ndFhkXf9P2_TiHRG-bA"
     -d '{ "handle":"878287f37b2bv293bv2bv237bv297bvbv" }'
     https://service.domain.org/csc/v2/credentials/authorizeCheck
Sample Response
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-Type: application/json;charset=UTF-8
{
   "SAD": "_TiHRG-bAH3XlFQZ3ndFhkXf9P24/CKN69L8gdSYp5_pw"
}
Sample Response
f
74

--- PAGE 75 ---
HTTP/1.1 202 OK
Content-Type: application/json;charset=UTF-8
{
   "handle": "878287f37b2bv293bv2bv237bv297bvbv"
}
11.10 credentials/getChallenge
Description
Get a challenge for the referenced authentication object.
Input
This method allows the following parameters:
Parameter Presence Value Description
credentialIDREQUIREDString The identifier associated to the credential.
authObjectIDREQUIREDString The identifier of the authentication object we need a challenge for.
Output
With HTTP status code 200, the method returns a challenge:
Attribute Presence Value Description
challenge REQUIRED String The authentication object challenge.
With HTTP status code 204, the method indicates that a challenge has been sent by out-of-band means,
returning no output values.
Error Case Status Code Error Error Description
The authorization header does not match the pattern “Bearer
[sessionKey]”
400
(bad
request)
invalid_requestMalformed authorization
header.
Invalid “credentialID” parameter 400
(bad
request)
invalid_requestInvalid parameter credentialID
Invalid “authObjectID” parameter 400
(bad
request)
invalid_requestInvalid parameter authObjectID
Examples
In-band challenge
Sample Request
POST /csc/v2/credentials/getChallenge HTTP/1.1
Host: service.domain.org
Content-Type: application/json
Authorization: Bearer 4/CKN69L8gdSYp5_pwH3XlFQZ3ndFhkXf9P2_TiHRG-bA
{ 
   "credentialID": "GX0112348",
   "authObjectID": "fallback question"
}
f
75

--- PAGE 76 ---
cURL Example
curl -X POST
     -H "Content-Type: application/json"
     -H "Authorization: Bearer 4/CKN69L8gdSYp5_pwH3XlFQZ3ndFhkXf9P2_TiHRG-bA"
     -d '{ 
        "credentialID": "GX0112348",
        "authObjectID": "fallback question"
     }'
     https://service.domain.org/csc/v2/credentials/getChallenge
Sample Response
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-Type: application/json;charset=UTF-8
{
   "challenge": "What's your mother's birth name?"
}
Out-of-band challenge
Sample Request
POST /csc/v2/credentials/getChallenge HTTP/1.1
Host: service.domain.org
Content-Type: application/json
Authorization: Bearer 4/CKN69L8gdSYp5_pwH3XlFQZ3ndFhkXf9P2_TiHRG-bA
{ 
   "credentialID": "GX0112348",
   "authObjectID": "OTP"
}
cURL Example
curl -X POST
     -H "Content-Type: application/json"
     -H "Authorization: Bearer 4/CKN69L8gdSYp5_pwH3XlFQZ3ndFhkXf9P2_TiHRG-bA"
     -d '{ 
        "credentialID": "GX0112348",
        "authObjectID": "OTP"
     }'
     https://service.domain.org/csc/v2/credentials/getChallenge
Sample Response
HTTP/1.1 204 OK
11.11 credentials/extendTransaction
Description
Extends the validity of a multi-signature transaction authorization by obtaining a new Signature Activation Data
(SAD). This method SHALL be used in case of multi-signature transaction when the API method
signatures/signHash, as defined in signatures/signHash, is invoked multiple times with a single credential
authorization event.
It can also be used to renew a SAD, before it expires, when signature operations take longer than allowed by the
expiresIn value. Expired SAD cannot be extended.
The RSSP SHALL invalidate the SAD when the number of authorized signatures, specified with numSignatures in
the credential authorization event, has been created.
f
76

--- PAGE 77 ---
Input
This method allows the following parameters:
Parameter Presence Value Description
credentialIDREQUIREDStringThe credentialID as defined in the Input parameter table in credentials/info.
hashes REQUIRED
Conditional
Array
of
String
One or more base64-encoded hash values to be signed. It allows the server to bind the new
SAD to the hash, thus preventing an authorization to be used to sign a different content. It
SHALL be used if the SCAL parameter returned by credentials/info, as defined in
credentials/info, for the current credentialID is “2” , otherwise it is OPTIONAL.
hashAlgorithmOIDREQUIRED
Conditional
StringString containing the OID of the hash algorithm used to generate the hash values.
SAD REQUIREDStringThe current unexpired Signature Activation Data. This token is returned by the
credentials/authorize, as defined in credentials/authorize, or by the previous call to
credentials/extendTransaction.
clientData OPTIONALStringThe clientData as defined in the Input parameter table in oauth2/authorize.
Note 42: This method can be used for applying multiple signatures to a PDF document from a single user, e.g. to
sign separately different parts of the document, with a single credential authorization event. The PDF
standard adopts nested signatures so the hashes for multiple signatures can only be calculated after the
previous signature has been created. This method allows to calculate a new SAD based on new hash values
that were not available when the credential authorization event occurred. The sequence diagram in Create
a remote multi-signatures transaction with a PDF document shows this use case.
Output
This method returns the following values using the “application/json” format:
Attribute Presence Value Description
SADREQUIREDStringThe new Signature Activation Data required to sign multiple times with a single authorization.
expiresInOPTIONALIntegerThe lifetime in seconds of the SAD. If omitted, the default expiration time is 3600 (1 hour).
Error Case Status Code Error Error Description
The authorization header does not match the pattern “Bearer
[sessionKey]”
400
(bad
request)
invalid_requestMalformed authorization
header.
Note 43: In case a wrong PIN or OTP is provided several times, the remote signing service MAY lock the credential
or the usage of the PIN or OTP. The policy adopted by the RSSP in this regard is out of the scope of this
specification.
Examples
Sample Request
f
77

--- PAGE 78 ---
POST /csc/v2/credentials/extendTransaction HTTP/1.1
Host: service.domain.org
Content-Type: application/json
Authorization: Bearer 4/CKN69L8gdSYp5_pwH3XlFQZ3ndFhkXf9P2_TiHRG-bA
{ 
   "credentialID":"GX0112348",
   "hashes":[ 
      "WlTTnNwS3FiY3NlNEllaXFsRGcvSFd1ST0="
   ],
   "hashAlgorithmOID": "2.16.840.1.101.3.4.2.1",
   "SAD":"_TiHRG-bAH3XlFQZ3ndFhkXf9P24/CKN69L8gdSYp5_pw",
   "clientData":"12345678"
}
cURL Example
curl -X POST
     -H "Content-Type: application/json"
     -H "Authorization: Bearer 4/CKN69L8gdSYp5_pwH3XlFQZ3ndFhkXf9P2_TiHRG-bA"
     -d '{ "credentialID": "GX0112348",
           "hashes": [ "WlTTnNwS3FiY3NlNEllaXFsRGcvSFd1ST0=" ],
       "hashAlgorithmOID": "2.16.840.1.101.3.4.2.1",
           "SAD": "_TiHRG-bAH3XlFQZ3ndFhkXf9P24/CKN69L8gdSYp5_pw",
           "clientData": "12345678" }'
     https://service.domain.org/csc/v2/credentials/extendTransaction
Sample Response
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-Type: application/json;charset=UTF-8
{
   "SAD":"1/UsHDJ98349h9fgh9348hKKHDkHWVkl/8hsAW5usc8_5="
}
11.12 credentials/sendOTP
Note 44: New implementations of signature applications should request a challenge from the service provider
using credentials/getChallenge instead of invoking credentials/sendOTP.
Description
Start an online One-Time Password (OTP) generation mechanism associated with a credential and managed by
the remote service. This will generate a dynamic one-time password that will be delivered to the user who owns
the credential through an agreed communication channel managed by the remote service (e.g. SMS, email, app,
etc.). This method SHOULD only be used with “online” OTP generators. In case of “offline” OTP, the signature
application SHOULD NOT invoke this method because the OTP can be generated autonomously by the user.
Input
This method allows the following parameters:
Parameter Presence Value Description
credentialIDREQUIREDStringThe credentialID as defined in the Input parameter table in credentials/info.
clientDataOPTIONALStringThe clientData as defined in the Input parameter table in oauth2/authorize.
Output
This method has no output values and the response returns “No Content” status.
f
78

--- PAGE 79 ---
Error Case Status CodeError Error Description
The authorization header does not match the pattern
“Bearer [sessionKey]”
400
(bad
request)
invalid_requestMalformed authorization header.
The “credentialID” parameter or not of type String 400
(bad
request)
invalid_requestMissing (or invalid type) string parameter
credentialID
Invalid “credentialID” parameter 400
(bad
request)
invalid_requestInvalid parameter credentialID
OTP locked 400
(bad
request)
invalid_requestOTP locked
Note 45: In case a wrong PIN or OTP is provided several times, the remote signing service MAY lock the credential
or the usage of the PIN or OTP. The policy adopted by the RSSP in this regard is out of the scope of this
specification.
Examples
Sample Request
POST /csc/v1/credentials/sendOTP HTTP/1.1
Host: service.domain.org
Content-Type: application/json
Authorization: Bearer 4/CKN69L8gdSYp5_pwH3XlFQZ3ndFhkXf9P2_TiHRG-bA
{
"credentialID": "GX0112348",
"clientData": "12345678"
}
cURL Example
curl -X POST
     -H "Content-Type: application/json"
     -H "Authorization: Bearer 4/CKN69L8gdSYp5_pwH3XlFQZ3ndFhkXf9P2_TiHRG-bA"
     -d '{ "credentialID": "GX0112348",
           "clientData": "12345678" }'
https://service.domain.org/csc/v1/credentials/sendOTP
Sample Response
HTTP/1.1 204 No Content
11.13 signatures/signHash
Description
Calculate the remote digital signature of one or multiple hash values provided in input.
This method requires service and Credential authorization.
The signing application MUST pass an access token with scope “service” or “credential” in the “Authorization”
HTTP header as defined in RFC 6750 [12].
If the credential authorization mode is “explicit”, the signing application MUST pass Signature Activation Data
(SAD) in the SAD request parameter (see below). SAD may be obtained from credentials/authorize.
f
79

--- PAGE 80 ---
If the credential authorization mode is “oauth2code” and the access token passed in the “Authorization” HTTP
header has scope “service”, the signing application MUST pass an access token with scope “credential” in the SAD
request parameter. This is not required if the access token passed in the “Authorization” HTTP header has scope
“credential”.
In case of multi-signature transactions, the SAD SHALL be updated with credentials/extendTransaction every time
this method is invoked until the maximum number of authorized signatures has been generated.
Input
The input for this method is the union of the following:
signingAlgorithm (see the CSC data model [37])
The parameters in the table below
Parameter Presence Value Description
credentialIDREQUIREDStringThe credentialID as defined in the Input parameter table in credentials/info.
SAD REQUIRED
Conditional
StringThe Signature Activation Data returned by the Credential Authorization methods. Not
needed if the signing application has passed an access token in the “Authorization” HTTP
header with scope “credential”, which is also good for the credential identified by
credentialID.
Note: For backward compatibility, signing applications MAY pass access tokens with scope
“credential” in this parameter.
hashes REQUIREDArray
of
String
One or more hash values to be signed. This parameter SHALL contain the base64-encoded
raw message digest(s).
hashAlgorithmOIDREQUIRED
Conditional
StringThe OID of the algorithm used to calculate the hash value(s). This parameter SHALL be
ignored if the hash algorithm is implicitly specified by signAlgo or signAlgoParams (see
signingAlgorithm in the CSC data model [37]). Only hashing algorithms as strong or stronger
than SHA256 SHALL be used. The hash algorithm SHOULD follow the recommendations of
ETSI TS 119 312 [21].
operationModeOPTIONALStringThe type of operation mode requested to the remote signing server. It SHALL take one of
the following values:
“A”: an asynchronous operation mode is requested.
“S”: a synchronous operation mode is requested.
The default value is “S”, so if the parameter is omitted then the remote signing server will
manage the request in synchronous operation mode.
validity_periodOPTIONAL
Conditional
IntegerMaximum period of time, expressed in milliseconds, until which the server SHALL keep the
request outcome(s) available for the client application retrieval. This parameter MAY be
specified only if the parameter operationMode is “A”. If the parameter operationMode is
not “A” and this parameter is specified its value SHALL be ignored. The RSSP SHOULD define
in its service policy the default and maximum values of this parameter. If the RSSP does not
define in its service policy any default and maximum values of this parameter it means that
any value MAY be passed in this parameter.
response_uri OPTIONAL
Conditional
StringValue of one location where the server will notify the signature creation operation
completion, as a URI value. This parameter MAY be specified only if the parameter
operationMode is “A”. If the parameter operationMode is not “A” and this parameter is
specified its value SHALL be ignored. If the parameter operationMode is “A” and this
parameter is omitted then the remote signing server will not make any notification.
clientData OPTIONALStringThe clientData as defined in the Input parameter table in oauth2/authorize.
Output
This method returns the following values using the “application/json” format:
f
80

--- PAGE 81 ---
Attribute Presence Value Description
signaturesREQUIRED
Conditional
Array of
String
One or more base64-encoded signed hash(s). In case of multiple signatures, the signed hashes
SHALL be returned in the same order as the corresponding hashes provided as an input parameter.
This value SHALL be returned when operationMode is not “A”.
responseIDREQUIRED
Conditional
String An opaque handle that can be used to request the state of the signing process via
signatures/signPolling. This value SHALL be returned when operationMode is “A”.
f
81

--- PAGE 82 ---
Error Case Status
Code
Error Error Description
The authorization header does not match the pattern
“Bearer [sessionKey]”
400
(bad
request)
invalid_requestMalformed authorization header.
Missing or not String “SAD” parameter 400
(bad
request)
invalid_requestMissing (or invalid type) string parameter
SAD
Invalid “SAD” parameter 400
(bad
request)
invalid_requestInvalid parameter SAD
Missing or not String “credentialID” parameter 400
(bad
request)
invalid_requestMissing (or invalid type) string parameter
credentialID
Invalid “credentialID” parameter 400
(bad
request)
invalid_requestInvalid parameter credentialID
Missing or not Array “hashes” parameter 400
(bad
request)
invalid_requestMissing (or invalid type) array parameter
hashes
Empty “hashes” parameter 400
(bad
request)
invalid_requestEmpty hashes array
Invalid base64 hash element 400
(bad
request)
invalid_requestInvalid Base64 hash string parameter
Unauthorized hash 400
(bad
request)
invalid_requestHash is not authorized by neither SAD nor an
access token with scope “credential”.
Missing or not String “signAlgo” parameter 400
(bad
request)
invalid_requestMissing (or invalid type) string parameter
signAlgo
Invalid “signAlgo” parameter 400
(bad
request)
invalid_requestInvalid parameter signAlgo
Missing or not String “signAlgoParams” parameter 400
(bad
request)
invalid_requestMissing (or invalid type) string parameter
signAlgoParams
Invalid “signAlgoParams” parameter 400
(bad
request)
invalid_requestInvalid parameter signAlgoParams
Missing or not String “hashAlgorithmOID” parameter when
hash algorithm is not implied by “signAlgo” or
“signAlgoParams”
400
(bad
request)
invalid_requestMissing (or invalid type) string parameter
hashAlgorithmOID
“hashAlgorithmOID” parameter contradicting with
“signAlgo” or “signAlgoParams” parameter
400
(bad
request)
invalid_requestString parameter hashAlgorithmOID
contradicts with signAlgo signAlgoParams
parameter
When present, invalid “hashAlgorithmOID” parameter400
(bad
request)
invalid_requestInvalid parameter hashAlgorithmOID
When present, invalid “operationMode” parameter 400
(bad
request)
invalid_requestInvalid parameter operationMode
When present, invalid “validity_period” parameter 400
(bad
request)
invalid_requestInvalid parameter validity_period
When present, out of bounds “validity_period” parameter400
(bad
invalid_requestOut of bounds parameter validity_period
f
82

--- PAGE 83 ---
Error Case Status
Code
Error Error Description
request)
When present, invalid “response_uri” parameter 400
(bad
request)
invalid_requestInvalid parameter response_uri
When present, invalid “clientData” format (not string) 400
(bad
request)
invalid_requestInvalid parameter clientData
Invalid “hashes” length 400
(bad
request)
invalid_requestInvalid digest value length
The OTP used to generate the “SAD” is invalid 400
(bad
request)
invalid_otp The OTP is invalid
Expired “SAD” 400
(bad
request)
invalid_requestSAD expired
Expired credential 400
(bad
request)
invalid_requestSigning certificate ‘O=[organization],CN=
[common_name]’ is expired.
Examples
Sample Request
POST /csc/v2/signatures/signHash HTTP/1.1
Host: service.domain.org
Content-Type: application/json
Authorization: Bearer 4/CKN69L8gdSYp5_pwH3XlFQZ3ndFhkXf9P2_TiHRG-bA
{ 
   "credentialID":"GX0112348",
   "SAD":"_TiHRG-bAH3XlFQZ3ndFhkXf9P24/CKN69L8gdSYp5_pw",
   "hashes":[ 
      "sTOgwOm+474gFj0q0x1iSNspKqbcse4IeiqlDg/HWuI=",
      "c1RPZ3dPbSs0NzRnRmowcTB4MWlTTnNwS3FiY3NlNEllaXFsRGcvSFd1ST0="
   ],
   "hashAlgorithmOID":"2.16.840.1.101.3.4.2.1",
   "signAlgo":"1.2.840.113549.1.1.1",
   "clientData":"12345678"
}
cURL Example
curl -X POST
     -H "Content-Type: application/json"
     -H "Authorization: Bearer
     4/CKN69L8gdSYp5_pwH3XlFQZ3ndFhkXf9P2_TiHRG-bA"
     -d '{ "credentialID": "GX0112348",
           "SAD": "_TiHRG-bAH3XlFQZ3ndFhkXf9P24/CKN69L8gdSYp5_pw",
           "hashes": [ "sTOgwOm+474gFj0q0x1iSNspKqbcse4IeiqlDg/HWuI=",
           "c1RPZ3dPbSs0NzRnRmowcTB4MWlTTnNwS3FiY3NlNEllaXFsRGcvSFd1ST0="
           ],
           "hashAlgorithmOID": "2.16.840.1.101.3.4.2.1",
           "signAlgo": "1.2.840.113549.1.1.1",
           "clientData": "12345678"}'
     https://service.domain.org/csc/v2/signatures/signHash
Sample Response
f
83

--- PAGE 84 ---
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-Type: application/json;charset=UTF-8
{
   "signatures":
   [
      "KedJuTob5gtvYx9qM3k3gm7kbLBwVbEQRl26S2tmXjqNND7MRGtoew==",
      "Idhef7xzgtvYx9qM3k3gm7kbLBwVbE98239S2tm8hUh85KKsfdowel=="
   ]
}
Sample Request
POST /csc/v2/signatures/signHash HTTP/1.1
Host: service.domain.org
Content-Type: application/json
Authorization: Bearer 4/CKN69L8gdSYp5_pwH3XlFQZ3ndFhkXf9P2_TiHRG-bA
{ 
   "credentialID":"GX0112348",
   "SAD":"_TiHRG-bAH3XlFQZ3ndFhkXf9P24/CKN69L8gdSYp5_pw",
   "hashes":[ 
      "sTOgwOm+474gFj0q0x1iSNspKqbcse4IeiqlDg/HWuI=",
      "c1RPZ3dPbSs0NzRnRmowcTB4MWlTTnNwS3FiY3NlNEllaXFsRGcvSFd1ST0="
   ],
   "hashAlgorithmOID":"2.16.840.1.101.3.4.2.1",
   "signAlgo":"1.2.840.113549.1.1.1",
   "operationMode": "A",
   "clientData":"12345678"
}
cURL Example
curl -X POST
     -H "Content-Type: application/json"
     -H "Authorization: Bearer
     4/CKN69L8gdSYp5_pwH3XlFQZ3ndFhkXf9P2_TiHRG-bA"
     -d '{ "credentialID": "GX0112348",
           "SAD": "_TiHRG-bAH3XlFQZ3ndFhkXf9P24/CKN69L8gdSYp5_pw",
           "hashes": [ "sTOgwOm+474gFj0q0x1iSNspKqbcse4IeiqlDg/HWuI=",
           "c1RPZ3dPbSs0NzRnRmowcTB4MWlTTnNwS3FiY3NlNEllaXFsRGcvSFd1ST0="
           ],
           "hashAlgorithmOID": "2.16.840.1.101.3.4.2.1",
           "signAlgo": "1.2.840.113549.1.1.1",
           "operationMode": "A",
           "clientData": "12345678"}'
     https://service.domain.org/csc/v2/signatures/signHash
Sample Response
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-Type: application/json;charset=UTF-8
{
   "responseID":"158112-652341-khj"
}
Sample Request
POST /csc/v2/signatures/signHash HTTP/1.1
Host: service.domain.org
Content-Type: application/json
Authorization: Bearer 5/CKN69L8gdSYp5_pwH3XlFQZ3ndFhkXf9P2_TiHRG-bA
{ 
   "credentialID":"GX0112348",
   "hashes":[ 
      "sTOgwOm+474gFj0q0x1iSNspKqbcse4IeiqlDg/HWuI=",
      "c1RPZ3dPbSs0NzRnRmowcTB4MWlTTnNwS3FiY3NlNEllaXFsRGcvSFd1ST0="
   ],
   "hashAlgorithmOID":"2.16.840.1.101.3.4.2.1",
   "signAlgo":"1.2.840.113549.1.1.1",
   "operationMode": "A",
   "clientData":"12345678"
}
f
84

--- PAGE 85 ---
cURL Example
curl -X POST
     -H "Content-Type: application/json"
     -H "Authorization: Bearer
     5/CKN69L8gdSYp5_pwH3XlFQZ3ndFhkXf9P2_TiHRG-bA"
     -d '{ "credentialID": "GX0112348",
           "hashes": [ "sTOgwOm+474gFj0q0x1iSNspKqbcse4IeiqlDg/HWuI=",
           "c1RPZ3dPbSs0NzRnRmowcTB4MWlTTnNwS3FiY3NlNEllaXFsRGcvSFd1ST0="
           ],
           "hashAlgorithmOID": "2.16.840.1.101.3.4.2.1",
           "signAlgo": "1.2.840.113549.1.1.1",
           "operationMode": "A",
           "clientData": "12345678"}'
     https://service.domain.org/csc/v2/signatures/signHash
Sample Response
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-Type: application/json;charset=UTF-8
{
   "responseID":"158112-652341-khj"
}
11.14 signatures/signDoc
Description
Create one or more AdES signatures. Either the documents to be signed or the SDRs (in this specification it is
intended to be the hash values of the documents to be signed) SHALL be provided to the method. An AdES
signature will be created for each of these input components. Other components are used to select the type of
signature that will be created for each document or document representation.
This method requires service and Credential authorization as defined in signatures/signHash.
Input
This method allows the following parameters:
f
85

--- PAGE 86 ---
Parameter Presence Value Description
credentialID REQUIRED
Conditional
String The credentialID as defined in the Input parameter table in
credentials/info. At least one of the two values credentialID and
signatureQualifier SHALL be present. Both values MAY be present.
signatureQualifierREQUIRED
Conditional
signatureQualifier Identifier of the signature type to be created, e.g. “eu_eidas_qes” to
denote a Qualified Electronic Signature according to eIDAS. The
signatureQualifier JSON object is defined in the CSC data model [37]. At
least one of the two values credentialID and signatureQualifier SHALL
be present. Both values MAY be present.
SAD REQUIRED
Conditional
String The Signature Activation Data returned by the Credential Authorization
methods. Not needed if the signing application has passed an access
token with scope “credential” in the “Authorization” HTTP header,
which is also good for the credential identified by credentialID or the
signature qualifier identified by signatureQualifier.
Note: For backward compatibility, signing applications MAY pass access
tokens with scope “credential” in this parameter.
documentDigestsREQUIRED
Conditional
Array of
signatureCreationRequest
Array of signatureCreationRequest objects as defined in the CSC data
model [37]. All signatureCreationRequest objects MUST be with
documentRepresentations. This parameter or the parameter documents
MUST be present in a request. Otherwise the method SHALL return an
error condition. If the hashes parameter was set during authorization,
then the RSSP SHALL verify that each of the hashes in this parameter
corresponds to one of the hashes provided in the authorization. If the
parameter hashAlgorithmOID is passed and is in contradiction with the
value of the signAlgo field in this parameter the method SHALL return
an error condition.
documents REQUIRED
Conditional
Array of
signatureCreationRequest
Array of signatureCreationRequest objects as defined in the CSC data
model [37]. All signatureCreationRequest objects MUST be with
documentData. This parameter or the parameter documentDigests
MUST be present in a request. Otherwise the method SHALL return an
error condition. If the hashes parameter was set during authorization,
then the RSSP SHALL verify that the hash of each of the documents in
this parameter corresponds to one of the hashes provided in the
credential authorization.
hashAlgorithmOIDREQUIRED
Conditional
String Hashing algorithm OID used to calculate the hash values. This
parameter SHALL be ignored if the hash algorithm is implicitly specified
by signAlgo or signAlgoParams in the documentDigests or documents
parameter. Only hashing algorithms as strong or stronger than SHA256
SHALL be used. The hash algorithm SHOULD follow the
recommendations of ETSI TS 119 312 [21].
operationModeOPTIONALString The operationMode as defined in the Input parameter table in
signatures/signHash.
validity_periodOPTIONAL
Conditional
Integer The validity_period as defined in the Input parameter table in
signatures/signHash.
response_uri OPTIONAL
Conditional
String The response_uri as defined in the Input parameter table in
signatures/signHash.
clientData OPTIONALString The clientData as defined in the Input parameter table in
oauth2/authorize.
returnValidationInfoOPTIONALBoolean This parameter SHALL be set to “true” to request the service to return
the “validationInfo” as defined below. The default value is “false”, i.e. no
“validationInfo” info is provided.
This parameter SHALL be supported in conjunction with
“signature_format” “P”, “conformance_level” “AdES-B-LT” and use of
“documentDigests”. For all other cases, the info methods states if this
feature is supported or not.
The possible input and output formats for signatures/signDoc are listed in the following table.
f
86

--- PAGE 87 ---
signature_formatsigned_envelope_property Input Parameter Output Parameter
documents documentDigestsDocumentWithSignature SignatureObject
CAdES Attached Signer’s
original
document
- CAdES signed document
(ie. with SD in eContent)
-
Detached Signer’s
original
document
- - SignedData as
defined in ETSI EN
319 122-1 [29]
- SDR - SignedData as
defined in ETSI EN
319 122-1 [29]
Parallel Signer’s
original
document
- - SignerInfo as
defined in ETSI EN
319 122-1 [29]
- SDR - SignerInfo as
defined in ETSI EN
319 122-1 [29]
PAdES Certification Signer’s
original
document /
signer’s
formatted
document
- PAdES signed document-
- SDR - CMS SignedData as
defined in ETSI EN
319 142-1 [31]
Revision Signer’s
original
document /
signer’s
formatted
document
- PAdES signed document-
- SDR - CMS SignedData as
defined in ETSI EN
319 142-1 [31]
XAdES Enveloped Signer’s
original
document /
signer’s
formatted
document
- XAdES signed document-
Enveloping Signer’s
original
document /
signer’s
formatted
document
- - Signature with
signed data included
as defined in ETSI EN
319 132-1 [30]
Detached Signer’s
original
document /
signer’s
formatted
document
- - Signature as
defined in ETSI EN
319 132-1 [30]
- SDR - Signature as
defined in ETSI EN
319 132-1 [30]
JAdES Attached Signer’s
original
document /
signer’s
- JAdES signed document-
f
87

--- PAGE 88 ---
signature_formatsigned_envelope_property Input Parameter Output Parameter
documents documentDigestsDocumentWithSignature SignatureObject
formatted
document
Detached Signer’s
original
document /
signer’s
formatted
document
- - JAdES detached
signature as defined
in ETSI TS 119 182-1
[32]
- SDR - JAdES detached
signature as defined
in ETSI TS 119 182-1
[32]
Parallel Signer’s
original
document /
signer’s
formatted
document
- - signature as
defined in ETSI TS
119 182-1 [32]
- SDR - signature as
defined in ETSI TS
119 182-1 [32]
Note 46: When signing signer’s original document at SCAL2, the RSSP MAY require circumstantialData to be
present in the authorization as described in oauth2/authorize and/or as parameter to signatures/signDoc.
Output
This method returns the following values using the “application/json” format:
Parameter Presence Value Description
DocumentWithSignatureREQUIRED
Conditional
Array of
String
One or more base64-encoded signatures enveloped within the documents. This
element SHALL carry a value only if the client application requested the creation of
signature(s) enveloped within the signed document(s) and when operationMode is
not “A”.
SignatureObject REQUIRED
Conditional
Array of
String
One or more base64-encoded signatures that are detached from or contain the signed
data. This element SHALL carry a value only if the client application requested the
creation of detached or enveloping signature(s) and when operationMode is not “A”.
responseID REQUIRED
Conditional
String An opaque handle that can be used to request the state of the signing process via
signatures/signPolling. This value SHALL be returned when operationMode is “A”.
validationInfo REQUIRED
Conditional
JSON
Object
The validationInfo is a JSON Object containing validation data. This element SHALL be
included in the signing response if requested using the input parameter
returnValidationInfo and when operationMode is not “A”.
The validationInfo is a JSON Object composed by the following parameters:
ocsp
crl
certificates
specified according to the following table.
f
88

--- PAGE 89 ---
ParameterPresence Value Description
ocsp REQUIRED
Conditional
Array
of
String
ocsp is an array of base64 encoded strings containing the DER-encoded ASN.1 data structures of type
OCSPResponse according to RFC 6960 [33]. This value SHALL be included if at least one OCSP
response is needed to validate the created signature and timestamps contained in the signature. It
SHALL contain all needed OCSP responses. If for the same certificate an OCSP response and a CRL is
available, the OCSP response SHOULD be included.
crl REQUIRED
Conditional
Array
of
String
crl is an array of base64 encoded strings containing the DER-encoded ASN.1 data structures of type
CertificateList according to RFC 5280 [8]. This value SHALL be included if at least one CRL is
needed to validate the created signature and timestamps contained in the signature. It SHALL contain
all needed CRLs.
certificatesREQUIRED
Conditional
Array
of
String
certificates contains one or more base64-encoded X.509v3 certificates from the certificate chain
used to create the respective signature and timestamps included in the signature. This value SHALL
be included if at least one certificate is needed to validate the created signature and timestamps,
which is not yet included in the signature. It SHALL contain all needed certificates.
f
89

--- PAGE 90 ---
Error Case Status
Code
Error Error Description
The authorization header does not match the pattern
“Bearer [sessionKey]”
400
(bad
request)
invalid_requestMalformed authorization header.
Missing or not String “SAD” parameter 400
(bad
request)
invalid_requestMissing (or invalid type) string parameter SAD
Invalid “SAD” parameter 400
(bad
request)
invalid_requestInvalid parameter SAD
Missing or not String “credentialID” parameter 400
(bad
request)
invalid_requestMissing (or invalid type) string parameter
credentialID
Invalid “credentialID” parameter 400
(bad
request)
invalid_requestInvalid parameter credentialID
When present, invalid object “documentDigests”
parameter
400
(bad
request)
invalid_requestInvalid object parameter documentDigests
When present, invalid array “documents” parameter400
(bad
request)
invalid_requestInvalid array parameter documents
Empty documentDigests and documents parameters400
(bad
request)
invalid_requestEmpty documentDigests and documents
objects
Both documentDigests and documents parameters have
been passed
400
(bad
request)
invalid_requestBoth documentDigests and documents
parameters passed
Invalid base64 hashes element 400
(bad
request)
invalid_requestInvalid Base64 hashes string parameter
Invalid base64 documents element 400
(bad
request)
invalid_requestInvalid Base64 documents string parameter
Unauthorized documentDigests or documents 400
(bad
request)
invalid_requestdocumentDigests or documents are not
authorized by the SAD.
Unauthorized attribute 400
(bad
request)
invalid_requestOne or more attributes in the documents
parameter is not authorized.
Missing or not String “signAlgo” parameter 400
(bad
request)
invalid_requestMissing (or invalid type) string parameter
signAlgo
Invalid “signAlgo” parameter 400
(bad
request)
invalid_requestInvalid parameter signAlgo
Missing or not String “signAlgoParams” parameter 400
(bad
request)
invalid_requestMissing (or invalid type) string parameter
signAlgoParams
Invalid “signAlgoParams” parameter 400
(bad
request)
invalid_requestInvalid parameter signAlgoParams
Missing or not String “hashAlgorithmOID” parameter
when hash algorithm is not implied by “signAlgo” or
“signAlgoParams”
400
(bad
request)
invalid_requestMissing (or invalid type) string parameter
hashAlgorithmOID
f
90

--- PAGE 91 ---
Error Case Status
Code
Error Error Description
“hashAlgorithmOID” parameter contradicting with
“signAlgo” or “signAlgoParams” parameter
400
(bad
request)
invalid_requestString parameter hashAlgorithmOID
contradicts with signAlgo or signAlgoParams
parameter
When present, invalid “hashAlgorithmOID” parameter400
(bad
request)
invalid_requestInvalid parameter hashAlgorithmOID
When present, invalid “signature_format” parameter400
(bad
request)
invalid_requestInvalid parameter signature_format
When “documents” is passed, missing or not String
“signature_format” parameter
400
(bad
request)
invalid_requestMissing (or invalid type) string parameter
signature_format
When present, invalid “conformance_level” parameter400
(bad
request)
invalid_requestInvalid parameter conformance_level
When present, invalid “signed_envelope_property”
parameter
400
(bad
request)
invalid_requestInvalid parameter signed_envelope_property
More than one “signature_format” or
“signed_envelope_property” when “allowMix” is false
400
(bad
request)
invalid_requestOnly a single signature_format and
signed_envelope_property is allowed
When present, invalid “signed_props” parameter 400
(bad
request)
invalid_requestInvalid parameter signed_props (list of invalid
attributes)
When present, invalid “operationMode” parameter 400
(bad
request)
invalid_requestInvalid parameter operationMode
When present, invalid “validity_period” parameter 400
(bad
request)
invalid_requestInvalid parameter validity_period
When present, out of bounds “validity_period” parameter400
(bad
request)
invalid_requestOut of bounds parameter validity_period
When present, invalid “response_uri” parameter 400
(bad
request)
invalid_requestInvalid parameter response_uri
When present, invalid “clientData” format (not string) 400
(bad
request)
invalid_requestInvalid parameter clientData
Invalid “hashes” element length 400
(bad
request)
invalid_requestInvalid digest value length
Expired “SAD” 400
(bad
request)
invalid_requestSAD expired
Expired credential 400
(bad
request)
invalid_requestSigning certificate ‘O=[organization],CN=
[common_name]’ is expired.
Document or documentDigest to be signed does not
match one of the authorized hashes
403
(bad
request)
invalid_hash Document or documentDigest does not match
authorized hash
Examples
Sample Request
f
91

--- PAGE 92 ---
POST /csc/v2/signatures/signDoc HTTP/1.1 Host: service.domain.org
Content-Type: application/json
Authorization: Bearer 4/CKN69L8gdSYp5_pwH3XlFQZ3ndFhkXf9P2_TiHRG-bA
{
    "credentialID": "GX0112348",
    "SAD": "_TiHRG-bAH3XlFQZ3ndFhkXf9P24/CKN69L8gdSYp5_pw",
    "documentDigests": [
        {
            "hashes": [ "sTOgwOm+474gFj0q0x1iSNspKqbcse4IeiqlDg/HWuI=" ],
            "signature_format": "P",
            "conformance_level": "AdES-B-T",
            "signAlgo": "1.2.840.113549.1.1.1"
        },
        {
            "hashes": [ "HZQzZmMAIWekfGH0/ZKW1nsdt0xg3H6bZYztgsMTLw0=" ],
            "signature_format": "C",
            "conformance_level": "AdES-B-B",
            "signAlgo": "1.2.840.113549.1.1.1"
        }
    ],
    "documents": [
        {
            "document": "Q2VydGlmaWNhdGVTZXJpYWxOdW1iZ…KzBTWWVJWWZZVXptU3V5MVU9DQo=",
            "documentType": "sod",
            "signature_format": "P",
            "conformance_level": "AdES-B-T",
            "signAlgo": "1.2.840.113549.1.1.1"
        },
        {
            "document": "Q2VydGlmaWNhdGVTZXJpYWxOdW1iZXI7U3… emNNbUNiL1cyQT09DQo=",
            "documentType": "sod",
            "signature_format": "C",
            "conformance_level": "AdES-B-B",
            "signed_envelope_property": "Attached",
            "signAlgo": "1.2.840.113549.1.1.1"
        }
    ],
    "hashAlgorithmOID": "2.16.840.1.101.3.4.2.1",
    "clientData": "12345678"
}
cURL Example
f
92

--- PAGE 93 ---
curl -X POST
     -H "Content-Type: application/json"
     -H "Authorization: Bearer 4/CKN69L8gdSYp5_pwH3XlFQZ3ndFhkXf9P2_TiHRG-bA"
     -d '{
    "credentialID": "GX0112348",
    "SAD": "_TiHRG-bAH3XlFQZ3ndFhkXf9P24/CKN69L8gdSYp5_pw",
    "documentDigests": [
        {
            "hashes": [ "sTOgwOm+474gFj0q0x1iSNspKqbcse4IeiqlDg/HWuI=" ],
            "signature_format": "P",
            "conformance_level": "AdES-B-T",
            "signAlgo": "1.2.840.113549.1.1.1"
        },
        {
            "hashes": [ "HZQzZmMAIWekfGH0/ZKW1nsdt0xg3H6bZYztgsMTLw0=" ],
            "signature_format": "C",
            "conformance_level": "AdES-B-B",
            "signAlgo": "1.2.840.113549.1.1.1"
        }
    ],
    "documents": [
        {
            "document": "Q2VydGlmaWNhdGVTZXJpYWxOdW1iZ…KzBTWWVJWWZZVXptU3V5MVU9DQo=",
            "documentType": "sod",
            "signature_format": "P",
            "conformance_level": "AdES-B-T",
            "signAlgo": "1.2.840.113549.1.1.1"
        },
        {
            "document": "Q2VydGlmaWNhdGVTZXJpYWxOdW1iZXI7U3… emNNbUNiL1cyQT09DQo=",
            "documentType": "sod",
            "signature_format": "C",
            "conformance_level": "AdES-B-B",
            "signed_envelope_property": "Attached",
            "signAlgo": "1.2.840.113549.1.1.1"
        }
    ],
    "hashAlgorithmOID": "2.16.840.1.101.3.4.2.1",
    "clientData": "12345678"
}'
https://service.domain.org/csc/v2/signatures/signDoc
Sample Response
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-Type: application/json;charset=UTF-8
{
    "DocumentWithSignature":
    [
        "MILuLgYJKoZIhvcNAQcCoILuHz… ehEeR5ZRi5+WV5T1FpO",
        "MIL4IAYJKoZIhvcNAQcCoIL4…YavvBxkVwJ3dFD9KbCi1qW3TxTI="
    ],
    "SignatureObject":
    [
        "MIAGCSqAMIACAQExDzANBglghkgBZQMEAgEFADCABgkqhkiG…Ss4rEsQV4AAAAAAAAA==",
        "MIAGCSqGSIb3DQEHAqCAMIACAQExDzANBglghkgBZQMEqhki…W7pP1ZJFKuF2YAAAAAAA"
    ]
}
Sample Request
POST /csc/v2/signatures/signDoc HTTP/1.1 Host: service.domain.org
Content-Type: application/json
Authorization: Bearer 4/CKN69L8gdSYp5_pwH3XlFQZ3ndFhkXf9P2_TiHRG-bA
{
    "signatureQualifier": "eu_eidas_qes",
    "SAD": "_TiHRG-bAH3XlFQZ3ndFhkXf9P24/CKN69L8gdSYp5_pw",
  "documentDigests": [
    {
        "hashes": "sTOgwOm+474gFj0q0x1iSNspKqbcse4IeiqlDg/HWuI=",
        "signature_format": "P",
        "conformance_level": "AdES-B-T",
        "signAlgo": "1.2.840.113549.1.1.1"
    }
  ],
  "hashAlgorithmOID": "2.16.840.1.101.3.4.2.1",
  "clientData": "12345678",
  "returnValidationInfo":true
}
f
93

--- PAGE 94 ---
cURL Example
curl -X POST
     -H "Content-Type: application/json"
     -H "Authorization: Bearer 4/CKN69L8gdSYp5_pwH3XlFQZ3ndFhkXf9P2_TiHRG-bA"
     -d '{
        "signatureQualifier": "eu_eidas_qes",
    "SAD": "_TiHRG-bAH3XlFQZ3ndFhkXf9P24/CKN69L8gdSYp5_pw",
    "documentDigests": [
         {
             "hashes": "sTOgwOm+474gFj0q0x1iSNspKqbcse4IeiqlDg/HWuI=",
             "signature_format": "P",
             "conformance_level": "AdES-B-T",
             "signAlgo": "1.2.840.113549.1.1.1"
          } 
  ],
  "hashAlgorithmOID": "2.16.840.1.101.3.4.2.1",
  "clientData": "12345678",
  "returnValidationInfo":true }'
https://service.domain.org/csc/v2/signatures/signDoc
Sample Response
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-Type: application/json;charset=UTF-8
{
    "SignatureObject":
    [
        "MIAGCSqAMIACAQExDzANBglghkgBZQMEAgEFADCABgkqhkiG…Ss4rEsQV4AAAAAAAAA==",
        "MIAGCSqGSIb3DQEHAqCAMIACAQExDzANBglghkgBZQMEqhki…W7pP1ZJFKuF2YAAAAAAA"
    ],
    "validationInfo":{
        "ocsp":[
           "MIIJg...jSc="
        ],
        "crl":[
           "MIIC4...X7M="
        ]
        "certificates":[
           "<base64-encoded_X.509_certificate>"
        ]
    }
}
Sample Request
POST /csc/v2/signatures/signDoc HTTP/1.1 Host: service.domain.org
Content-Type: application/json
Authorization: Bearer 6/CKN69L8gdSYp5_pwH3XlFQZ3ndFhkXf9P2_TiHRG-bA
{
    "signatureQualifier": "qes_eidas",
    "documentDigests": [
    {
      "hashes": [
        "sTOgwOm+474gFj0q0x1iSNspKqbcse4IeiqlDg/HWuI=",
        "HZQzZmMAIWekfGH0/ZKW1nsdt0xg3H6bZYztgsMTLw0="
      ],
        "signature_format": "P",
      "conformance_level": "AdES-B-T",
      "signAlgo": "1.2.840.113549.1.1.1",
    },
  ],
    "hashAlgorithmOID": "2.16.840.1.101.3.4.2.1"
    "clientData": "12345678"
}
cURL Example
f
94

--- PAGE 95 ---
curl -X POST
     -H "Content-Type: application/json"
     -H "Authorization: Bearer 6/CKN69L8gdSYp5_pwH3XlFQZ3ndFhkXf9P2_TiHRG-bA"
     -d '{  "signatureQualifier": "qes_eidas",
            "documentDigests": [
        {
          "hashes": [
            "sTOgwOm+474gFj0q0x1iSNspKqbcse4IeiqlDg/HWuI=",
            "HZQzZmMAIWekfGH0/ZKW1nsdt0xg3H6bZYztgsMTLw0="
          ],
          "signature_format": "P",
          "conformance_level": "AdES-B-T",
          "signAlgo": "1.2.840.113549.1.1.1",
        },
      ],
            "hashAlgorithmOID": "2.16.840.1.101.3.4.2.1"
            "clientData": "12345678" }'
https://service.domain.org/csc/v2/signatures/signDoc
Sample Response
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-Type: application/json;charset=UTF-8
{
    "SignatureObject":
    [
        "MIAGCSqAMIACAQExDzANBglghkgBZQMEAgEFADCABgkqhkiG…Ss4rEsQV4AAAAAAAAA==",
        "MIAGCSqGSIb3DQEHAqCAMIACAQExDzANBglghkgBZQMEqhki…W7pP1ZJFKuF2YAAAAAAA"
    ]
}
11.15 signatures/signPolling
Description
Request to the server to return the responses corresponding to previously sent (initial) digital signature value(s)
or signature(s) creation request when processed in asynchronous mode.
If the user is authenticated directly by the RSSP then the userID is implicit and SHALL NOT be specified.
Input
This method allows the following parameters:
ParameterPresence ValueDescription
requestIDREQUIREDStringThe responseID generated by the server to uniquely identify the response to a previous asynchronous
signature request (see signatures/signHash and signatures/signDoc).
userIDREQUIRED
Conditional
StringThe userID as defined in the Input parameter table in credentials/list.
clientDataOPTIONALStringThe clientData as defined in the Input parameter table in oauth2/authorize.
Output
With HTTP status code 200 the method returns the following values using the “application/json” format:
f
95

--- PAGE 96 ---
Parameter Presence Value Description
signatures REQUIRED
Conditional
Array of
String
The signatures as defined in the Output attribute table in signatures/signHash. This
element SHALL carry a value only if the client application requested the creation of
digital signature value(s). This value SHALL be returned when the requested digital
signature(s) creation has been completed.
DocumentWithSignatureREQUIRED
Conditional
Array of
String
The DocumentWithSignature as defined in the Output attribute table in
signatures/signDoc. This value SHALL be returned when the requested signature(s)
creation has been completed.
SignatureObject REQUIRED
Conditional
Array of
String
The SignatureObject as defined in the Output attribute table in signatures/signDoc.
This value SHALL be returned when the requested signature(s) creation has been
completed.
validationInfo REQUIRED
Conditional
JSON
Object
The validationInfo as defined in the Output attribute table in signatures/signDoc. This
value SHALL be returned when the requested signature(s) creation has been
completed and signatures/signDoc was called with the returnValidationInfo value set
to “true”.
With HTTP status code 202 the method indicates that the processing has not yet been completed.
Error Case Status CodeError Error Description
The authorization header does not match the pattern
“Bearer [sessionKey]”
400
(bad
request)
invalid_requestMalformed authorization header.
Missing or not String “requestID” Parameter 400
(bad
request)
invalid_requestMissing (or invalid type) string parameter
requestID
Invalid requestID parameter 400
(bad
request)
invalid_requestInvalid parameter requestID
Not empty “userID” parameter in case of user-specific
authorization
400
(bad
request)
invalid_requestuserID parameter SHALL be null
Invalid “userID” format in case of no user-specific
authorization
400
(bad
request)
invalid_requestInvalid parameter “userID”
When present, invalid “clientData” format (not string) 400
(bad
request)
invalid_requestInvalid parameter clientData
Examples
Sample Request
POST /csc/v2/signatures/signPolling  HTTP/1.1
Host: service.domain.org
Content-Type: application/json
Authorization: Bearer 4/CKN69L8gdSYp5_pwH3XlFQZ3ndFhkXf9P2_TiHRG-bA
{
   "requestID":"158112-652341-khj",
   "clientData":"12345678"
}
cURL Example
curl -X POST
     -H "Content-Type: application/json"
     -H "Authorization: Bearer 4/CKN69L8gdSYp5_pwH3XlFQZ3ndFhkXf9P2_TiHRG-bA"
     -d '{ "requestID":"158112-652341-khj",
           "clientData": "12345678" }'
     https://service.domain.org/csc/v2/signatures/signPolling
f
96

--- PAGE 97 ---
Sample Response
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-Type: application/json;charset=UTF-8
{
    "signatures":
    [
        "KedJuTob5gtvYx9qM3k3gm7kbLBwVbEQRl26S2tmXjqNND7MRGtoew==",
        "Idhef7xzgtvYx9qM3k3gm7kbLBwVbE98239S2tm8hUh85KKsfdowel=="
    ]
}
11.16 signatures/timestamp
Description
Generate a time-stamp token for the input hash value. The time-stamp token can be generated directly by the
RSSP or by a Time Stamping Authority connected to it.
The reason to implement this method instead of providing time-stamp services through widespread RFC 3161 [2]
protocols directly is to facilitate the creation of long-term validation digital signatures and to support billing
operations. In both cases, the RSSP provider can offer pre-configured time-stamp services instead of requiring
the signature application to obtain time-stamp services from a different provider.
Input
This method allows the following parameters:
ParameterPresence ValueDescription
hashREQUIREDStringThe base64-encoded hash value to be time stamped. The remote service SHALL use this value to encode
the value of MessageImprint.hashedMessage as defined in RFC 3161 [2].
hashAlgo REQUIREDStringThe OID of the algorithm used to calculate the hash value. The remote service SHALL use this value to
encode the value of MessageImprint.hashAlgorithm as defined in RFC 3161 [2].
nonceOPTIONALStringA large random number with a high probability that it is generated by the signature application only
once. The value SHALL be represented as hex-encoded string.
clientDataOPTIONALStringThe clientData as defined in the Input parameter table in oauth2/authorize.
Note 47: RFC 3161 [2] contains more detailed definitions of time stamp parameters that can be used in the
context of this specification.
Output
This method returns the following values using the “application/json” format:
ParameterPresence ValueDescription
timestampREQUIREDStringThe base64-encoded time-stamp token as defined in RFC 3161 [2] as updated by RFC 5816 [10]. If the
nonce parameter is included in the request then it SHALL also be included in the time-stamp token,
otherwise the response SHALL be rejected.
f
97

--- PAGE 98 ---
Error Case Status CodeError Error Description
The authorization header does not match the pattern “Bearer
[sessionKey]”
400
(bad
request)
invalid_requestMalformed authorization header.
The“hash” parameter is missing or not of type String. 400
(bad
request)
invalid_requestMissing (or invalid type) string
parameter hash
Empty hash parameter 400
(bad
request)
invalid_requestEmpty hash parameter
Invalid “hash” length 400
(bad
request)
invalid_requestInvalid digest value length
Invalid base64 hash element 400
(bad
request)
invalid_requestInvalid Base64 hash string parameter
Invalid “hashAlgo” parameter 400
(bad
request)
invalid_requestInvalid parameter hashAlgo
Invalid or non-numeric “nonce” parameter 400
(bad
request)
invalid_requestInvalid parameter nonce
Examples
Sample Request
POST /csc/v2/signatures/timestamp HTTP/1.1
Host: service.domain.org
Content-Type: application/json
Authorization: Bearer 4/CKN69L8gdSYp5_pwH3XlFQZ3ndFhkXf9P2_TiHRG-bA
{
   "hash":"sTOgwOm+474gFj0q0x1iSNspKqbcse4IeiqlDg/HWuI=",
   "hashAlgo":"2.16.840.1.101.3.4.2.1",
   "clientData":"12345678"
}
cURL Example
curl -X POST
     -H "Content-Type: application/json"
     -H "Authorization: Bearer 4/CKN69L8gdSYp5_pwH3XlFQZ3ndFhkXf9P2_TiHRG-bA"
     -d '{ "hash": "sTOgwOm+474gFj0q0x1iSNspKqbcse4IeiqlDg/HWuI=",
           "hashAlgo": "2.16.840.1.101.3.4.2.1",
           "clientData": "12345678" }'
     https://service.domain.org/csc/v2/signatures/timestamp
Sample Response
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-Type: application/json;charset=UTF-8
{
   
"timestamp":"MGwCAQEGCSsGAQQB7U8CATAxMA0GCWCGSAFlAwQCAQUABCCrCqnrjH0VxXyQQlfnFJRx1jjrviTs7/GjKghr2Amlu
QIIVs5D8OUB4p4YDzIwMTQxMTE5MTEzMjM5WjADAgEBAgkAnWn2SSIWlXk="
}
f
98

--- PAGE 99 ---
12 OpenAPI description
An OpenAPI 3.0 description file is provided, as defined by the OpenAPI Initiative (OAI) https://www.openapis.org,
containing a full description of the CSC API. The OpenAPI file contains:
1. General information about the API like, for example, the APIs version, the Cloud Signature Consortium
contact information;
2. Information about the RESTful path URL and an example of server URL access points;
3. Authorization schemas required to access the CSC API;
4. A description of every method of the CSC protocol including input objects and returned HTTP responses.
The OpenAPI description file can be used by developers or testers to automatically generate a CSC compliant
server interfaces or client stubs.
The OpenAPI description file is available from the website of the Cloud Signature Consortium at:
https://cloudsignatureconsortium.org/resources/download-api-specifications/.
13 Interaction among elements and components
The building blocks of a remote signature solution interact with the API methods described in this specification.
The following sections describe the sequence diagrams of some of the most common operations required to
obtain a service authorization, credential authorization and to request a remote signature.
Note 48: The sample requests and responses that are provided in the diagrams are only a partial representation
of complete transactions and are aimed at showing the most important parameters and information. See
the example in the previous sections of this specification for complete and detailed descriptions.
f
99

--- PAGE 100 ---
13.1 Remote signing service authorization using Basic Authentication
f
100

--- PAGE 101 ---
13.2 Remote signing service authorization using OAuth 2.0 with
Authorization Code flow
13.3 Create a remote signature with a credential protected by a PIN
f
101

--- PAGE 102 ---
13.4 Create a remote signature with a credential protected by an “online”
OTP (based on SMS)
f
102

--- PAGE 103 ---
13.5 Create a remote signature with a credential protected by a mobile app
f
103

--- PAGE 104 ---
13.6 Create a remote signature with a credential protected by a PIN and an
“online” OTP (based on SMS)
13.7 Create a remote signature with a credential protected by OAuth 2.0
with Authorization Code flow
f
104

--- PAGE 105 ---
13.8 Create a remote signature with credential and signature qualifier with
OAuth 2.0 Authorization Code flow
13.9 Create a remote signature with OAuth 2.0 Authorization Code flow
and Pushed and Rich Authorization Request
f
105

--- PAGE 106 ---
13.10 Create a remote signature with a credential protected by RSSP-
managed authorization
13.11 Create multiple remote signatures from a list of hash values
13.12 Create a remote multi-signatures transaction with a PDF document
This diagram shows the case of a PDF document that is signed multiple times by the same signer. A single
credential authorization can be performed to authorize multiple signatures. However only the initial hash of the
document is available at authorization time. A new hash will be generated to calculate the following signatures.
For this reason, the credentials/extendTransaction method is used to supply the new hash to obtain the SAD to
calculate a new signature. See credentials/extendTransaction for more information.
f
106

--- PAGE 107 ---
13.13 Authorize SDR for signDoc
When calling signatures/signDoc the RSSP may require that SDR has been authorized. Since SDR cannot be
computed deterministically from signer’s original document, but depends on choices made in the RSSP, the
signature application will need assistance from the RSSP to get authorization for SDR.
This example shows a possible approach that uses advanced features of the authorization server that invokes or
lets the user agent invoke a remote service to compute SDR as part of the authorization flow. This approach
avoids involving the signature application in the computation of SDR.
f
107

--- PAGE 108 ---
14 Change history
14.1 Changes since version 1.0.4.0
Add certificate info into credentials/list method: It is now allowed to provide directly in the
credentials/list method the detailed information of the certificates.
Add asymmetric signing: The possibility was added to use asynchronous call as was already proposed in
ETSI TS 119 432.
Add signing of documents: It is not only possible to create a cryptographic signature of a hash, but also to
create an AdES signature on a hash or a document. The functionality is more powerful than the one
introduced in ETSI TS 119 432 since it allows different signature formats for different documents within
one call, which is especially useful in case a certificate is only created for one signature authorization, and
this authorization should cover different types of documents. It also allows to request JAdES signatures.
Possibility to use authorization request payload (PAR) and rich authorization requests (RAR) in the OAuth
authorization.
Allow to use only the credential OAuth authorization (without service authorization) for signing.
Add a chapter on the usage of the CSC protocol for creating electronic seals.
When creating a PAdES signature based on the hash document, provide the revocation information so
that this can be included in the final signed document.
Allow to request only credential which are valid, i.e. which can be used to sign, in the credentials/list
endpoint
Add explanation how to define algorithms via OIDs.
Allow to request signature authorization via OAuth on a credential of a specific type, without specifying
the credential ID. This is useful for short-lived credentials which are only created for a specific signature
f
108

--- PAGE 109 ---
process.
Make explicit credential authorization more flexible: The explicit credential authorization allows to use
and combine different authorization types. This makes the implicit credential authorization useless,
because it can be expressed as part of the explicit credential authorization.
Each time hash values are provided, provide also the hash algorithm
14.2 Changes since version 2.0.0.2
Amendments to CSC version 2.0.0.2.
Add a table to clarify input/output of signatures/signDoc.
Add signed attributes to OAuth 2.0 authorization.
Provide OpenAPI schema file for v2.1.
Deprecate JSON schema file format and credentials/sendOTP.
Add possibility to support multiple OAuth 2.0 authorization servers.
14.3 Changes since version 2.1.0.1
Credential Management: Added endpoints for creating and deleting credentials. Improved authorization
handling and updated the credential information endpoint. Introduced new data model types for
credential creation and deletion requests.
Data Model Alignment: Integrated the Data Model v1.0.0. Reorganized and simplified the model
structure. Moved binding sections to separate documentation. Added reusable and specific data types to
enhance consistency.
Architectural Updates: Improved the explanation of core architectures. Introduced a clear definition for
the Signature Creation Application. Refined the wallet-centric model and separated RP and DA roles.
Improved section 8 of the API to align with the updated architecture.
QES Transaction and Signing: Expanded support for QES transaction data and bindings. Clarified QES data
content and the use of signature qualifiers. Added an alternative response channel for QES using
responseURI. Introduced new transaction types, including certificate issuance.
Encoding and Data Format Improvements: Standardized Base64 and Base64URL encoding across the
specification. Added format patterns for URIs, byte data, and enums. Introduced a dedicated hash data
type to ensure consistent cryptographic references.
Documentation and Layout: Added a new Data Model documentation set. Improved rendering and
readability with Mermaid diagrams, better font support, and searchable PDFs. Added diagrams,
examples, and acknowledgements. Updated examples to reflect new architectural and data model
definitions.
f
109

